 MR. STAFFORD  wished to ask the Secretary at War whether any arrangement had been made by which wounded soldiers in the hospital at Scutari were enabled to transmit money from their pay to their friends and relatives at home?
 MR. WILLIAMS  was glad that the right hon. Baronet had taken up this question, which was one of very great importance. He much approved referring the Bills to a Select Committee. He understood that the first Bill did not apply to the metropolis, but that the Nuisances Removal Bill did. It was necessary that the Government should allow evidence to be taken before the Committee, as many important trades would be affected by the second measure.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, instructions had been given to the paymasters so far back as last May to afford every assistance in their power for this object; and Lord Raglan was requested, with a view to give greater publicity to the facilities provided for the remittances of money, to issue a general order relative thereto. In September last, when depôts were formed at Scutari, instructions were issued to the paymasters, especially with the view of calling attention to the facilities existing, and having heard of remittance orders not being obtained, he sent out orders on the 27th of December last that the greatest care should be taken in order that the wishes of the soldiers might be complied with; that unnecessary forms should be dispensed with; and that the money they desired to remit should be sent to their relatives with promptitude.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I have already stated that Her Majesty's Government have expressed their willingness to negotiate on those points, and I cannot state anything further at the present moment.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I cannot at present say whether it is possible to lay on the table any of the correspondence to which my hon. Friend refers. As regards the correspondence generally, I wish to say that it would not be usual, nor for the convenience of the public service under present circumstances, to lay it on the table; but there may be one of those papers which it may he possible to lay on the table, and I will consider that point before I give a final answer. Perhaps, as my hon. Friend has asked this question, I may state generally what has occurred with respect to "the four points," and in what state that question stands at present. At the end of November the Russian Government, through their Minister at Vienna, declared their acceptance of what are called the four points; and on the 2nd of December a treaty was signed between France, England, and Austria. On the 28th of December a meeting was held by the Ministers of France, England, and Austria, at Vienna, with Prince Gortchakoff, the Minister of Russia. At that meeting the French Minister read, on the part of England and Austria, as well as his own Government, the interpretation
 911
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : With respect to the question of the hon. Baronet, I beg to say that is a point I have reserved for consideration, and I doubt whether that protocol can now be laid on the table. As to the question last put to me, I beg
 912
 MR. PELLATT  asked whether it was intended to give the local authorities power to deal with the question of wharfage in many of the low districts, particularly in Southwark, which were liable to be overflowed by the Thames?
 MR. LAYARD  wished to inquire of the noble Lord the President of the Council whether he had any objection to lay on the table of the House the correspondence which had taken place with foreign Powers, relating to the treaty of the 2nd December, 1854, and especially any document communicated to the Russian Government, containing the interpretation placed by the English Government and that of France on "the four points," not for negotiation but for acceptance?
 MR. LAYARD  wished to know whether the House was to understand that negotiations were actually going on, or that they were suspended?
 MR. BRIGHT  understood the noble Lord to say that certain terms were offered to Russia, and that, after some deliberation, Russia had consented also to that one of the four points which had for its object to put an end to the predominance of Russia in the Black Sea. He hoped the noble Lord would not withdraw from that, and he wanted to know whether instructions were about to be sent out for the purpose of opening negotiations, as the noble Lord left the House to infer the contrary? Would, when a distinct proposition had been accepted, instructions for the prosecution of negotiations be sent out?
 MR. THORNELY  asked whether there was any intention of placing the burial grounds under the control of the Board of Health, or whether they would remain under the control of the Secretary of State for the Home Department?
 MR. WILKINSON  wished to say a word or two on behalf of the creators of
 933
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the expense of carrying out the alteration to which the right hon. Gentleman referred ought not to fall upon the owners and occupiers of wharfs, but upon the public, for whose benefit it would be undertaken.
 SIR B. HALL  said, the subject ought to be dealt with by a separate measure.
 SIR B. HALL  said, that one of the great objections to the system at present in operation in the metropolis was, that there were too many local authorities. He had given notice of a Bill for the 2nd of next month, by which he proposed to create bodies which would be empowered to carry out the provisions of these Nuisances Removal Acts and the other works necessary for the improvement of the sanitary condition of the people of the metropolis; they would also have large powers conferred upon them for the administration of their local affairs.
 SIR B. HALL  replied that they would remain as at present, and he could not now state whether any alteration would take place with respect to them.
 SIR B. HALL  then rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to alter and amend the Nuisances Removal Act. He said that his hon. Friend (Mr. Williams) had stated very truly that the Bill he had just introduced did not affect the metropolis. The fact was that the Bill could be only applied or adopted under very peculiar circumstances, and therefore it did not affect any particular district whatever. But the Bill he was now about to introduce would affect the metropolis most materially, and he intended that it should have that object. He knew of no place which ought to be dealt with by legislation in reference to those nuisances of which they had heard so much during the late epidemic more than the metropolis. He would state as briefly as possible the provisions of his second Bill. During the late epidemic the existing Act was found to be wholly inoperative. Innumerable complaints were made to him of the inadequacy of the Act; some by persons honestly anxious to carry out its provisions effectually, and others by persons desirous rather of evading the fulfilment of their duty, and urging the
 925 l., s. d. s. d. l. 926 "In your population of 130,000 there have died from cholera during the last few months 211 persons, of whom 26 were under five years of age. This mortality has been at the rate of 16 to every 10,000 inhabitants of the city. Its distribution among your several sub-districts is given in the annexed tables, which also indicate, through successive weekly periods, from July to November, the gradual rise and decline of the disease. London generally has suffered from the recent epidemic less than from that of 1849. The cholera deaths of the metropolis were then at the rate of 60 per 10,000; now they have probably not exceeded a rate of 45; so that this visitation, measured by the proportion of deaths, has been 25 per cent lighter than the last. But in favour of the city there has been a difference greatly beyond this metropolitan average. Our cholera deaths of 1849 amounted to 728, on which our recent mortality of 211 (since the population is nearly
 927 "A year ago, considering these things prospectively, I could not but feel great alarm as to what amount of epidemic suffering the City might experience. Former encounters, too, had shown how vulnerable we were, and it was impossible to forget the well-known tendency of the disease to revisit places which it has once ravaged. But against those threatening auguries at least one good was to be counted. Unlike the rest of the metropolis, the city had a sanitary government. For some years you had been giving care to the physical condition of public health. You had paved and sewered the City, even through its courts and alleys. You had established daily scavenging; you had almost abolished cesspools; you had put water within reach of all; you had done something (little was in your power) against overcrowding; you had set on foot the periodical inspection of houses, with a view to their better cleanliness." 928 929 930 l., Labourers' Friend 931 "None of the basements are at present occupied except as lumber places, and are in a most filthy state, emitting at times effluvia the most foul, partly in consequence of the accumulation of animal and vegetable matter, which is thrown in through the area windows, and through holes made in the ground-floors, and partly from the occasional overflow of badly-constructed dry brick drains which passed beneath the floor, in some instances not more than three inches. There is no paving to these floors. In the houses 2, 3, 4, and 5 the necessaries are large open holes, sufficiently capacious for a man to fall into; they have risers of wood rails, but no seats. Fortunately the rails are fixed too high for children, or accidents must now and then occur. This is one reason why the yards are constantly in such a filthy state." "This, if possible, exhibits greater poverty than below. The walls are full of large holes, and the light is visible through the roof. The rent of the attics is the same as of the floor below. It may seem strange that the price of rooms should not vary, but this uniformity is effected by the landlord removing those whose necessities are greater or who may be a shilling or so in arrear of rent to the upper quarters. The first feeling, after visiting this place, is that of astonishment that persons should be allowed to let such dilapidated buildings to these poor people, who really pay more than a fair rent for a good house. The rooms are seldom unoccupied, and the loss trifling. The rent would be 41 l. s. 932 l.
 SIR B. HALL  then rose and expressed a hope that he should be excused for soliciting the attention of the House, as he was about to address them on a question of vast interest, and one of no little difficulty
 913 914 915 916 l.; l. l.; l. l., l.; l.; l., l. l. l., l.; l., l., l. 917 l., l. l., l.; l., l.; l., l.; l., l.; l., l. l. l. l., l. l. l., l. "General Board of Health, Aug. 31, 1854. "I am directed by Sir Benjamin Hall to say that he will appoint you as superintending inspector, and will recommend the Lords Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury to assign you a salary of 800 l. 918 "The inspector is to show that there is no intention or desire on the part of the General Board of Health to force the application of the Act upon the district against the desire of the inhabitants. He will state that those ratepayers only who will derive direct advantage from the works will be charged with the cost of such work. The superintending inspector will especially urge that the object of the inquiry is to elicit facts for further consideration, and not to make out a case for indiscriminate application of the Act. He will seek the aid of all parties best qualified to afford information, and will so conduct the proceedings as to give every one the opportunity of being heard, and he will invite all persons, especially those who deny the want of improvement, to accompany him in his tour of inspection. Having ascertained the existing state of the district, the superintending inspector will examine and consider how far it may be advisable and practicable to apply the remedies of the Public Health Act within such cost as the inhabitants might be reasonably called upon to bear. To arrive at any accurate conclusion as to the cost, proper plans setting forth the levels, &c. must be furnished, and these plans are not to be undertaken by the superintending inspectors, but by persons selected to act by the local authorities after the locality shall have adopted the Act; but it will be the duty of the superintending inspector to make such general examination as will enable him to pronounce as to the practicability of remedial measures, and this may frequently serve for preliminary guidance of the local board and their surveyors in working out the necessary plans. It will generally be desirable that the superintending inspector, after completing his inquiry, should attend another meeting of the inhabitants before leaving the district, at which meeting he will state the conclusions at which he may have arrived and the recommendations which he will be prepared to make. An opportunity will thus be afforded to receive suggestions, and consider any objections which may be raised, all which may facilitate further proceedings. He will at the same time explain that all statements which may be transmitted from the locality to the General Board in reference to his report will receive the fullest attention and consideration." 919 920 Edinburgh Review "These abuses of private Bills Committees have been the subject of discussion almost annually during the present century in both Houses of Parliament; there are upwards of seventy long Reports, in which the delay, expense, and general inconvenience of our private Bill system have been from time to time pointed out. Some salutary changes have certainly been made in the institution of Committees, the mode of selection, and the reduction of the number of members, and the more important reform has been carried of providing, by general law, for several subjects hitherto dealt with only by private Acts; but the system of private Bill legislation and the greater portion of the inconvenience still remain." 921 l. l. "Every local board shall have power to purchase any land necessary for carrying into execution the above objects (drainage, water supply, &c.) And for the purposes of this section the Lands Clauses Consolidation Act, 1845, shall be incorporated with this Act; but the exercise of the above powers shall be subject to this restriction, that no such reservoir as aforesaid shall be made, nor shall any land be purchased, under the compulsory powers of the said Lands Clauses Consolidation Act for the purposes aforesaid except with the sanction of the justices assembled at some court of quarter sessions, such sanction to be obtained by the local board who have projected any such work in manner hereinafter mentioned." 922 923 l.; 924
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  asked whether it was contemplated in the present Bill to establish local authorities within the great metropolitan districts? He knew that there was a great feeling with reference to this subject, and he could never understand why the metropolis should be deprived of the benefits of municipal institutions.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  wished to ask if the noble Lord opposite would consent to produce a copy of the protocol of the 28th December, explaining the four points laid down in the note of the 8th of August?
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  thought it would be very undesirable that the House should embark in the complicated and difficult question with regard to the local government of the metropolis, without having first made up their minds as to what were the principles they proposed to apply to the general sanitary legislation and
 934
 MR. SPEAKER acquainted the House, that he had received a Letter from Lord Raglan in answer to a Letter communicating the Thanks of the House of the 15th and 18th December last, relative to the operations of Her Majesty's Forces in the Crimea. "Before Sevastopol, January 7th, 1855. "SIR—I have had the honour to receive your Letter of the l8th December, transmitting the Resolutions of the House of Commons, and requesting me to communicate them to the Officers and Men of the British Army, and to General Canrobert; and I beg to acquaint you that I have fulfilled your instructions, and am proud of having been charged with so agreeable a commission. "'The Officers and Men of the British Army derive the highest gratification from the knowledge that their gallant exertions in the cause in which they are engaged have been honoured by
 935 "I shall best make known to the House the sentiments entertained by General Canrobert of the public recognition of the brilliant achievements of the French Army, in cordial co-operation with the Troops of Her Majesty, by transmitting to you a copy of His Excellency's Letter in reply to my communication, and the General Order in which he announced to the Army under his command the Resolutions of the House, and expressed his due appreciation of the thanks they conveyed. "I trust you will be so good as to assure the House that I am deeply sensible of the great distinction it has conferred upon me in noticing my services, and that you will yourself accept my warmest acknowledgments for the manner in which you have performed the duty of communicating to me its Resolutions. "I have the honour to be, "With the highest respect, "Your most obedient servant, "RAGLAN. "The Right Honble. The Speaker."
 MR. SPEAKER laid on the Table Copy of Letter from General Canrobert to Lord Raglan, in answer to the Thanks of the House of the 15th day of December last, relative to the co-operation of the French Army with Her Majesty's Land Forces in the Crimea, together with a Copy of the General Order to the Army of the East. printed.
 VISCOUNT PALIV1ERSTON : There are no Orders of the Day to-morrow.
 MR. ADDERLEY  begged to ask the right hon. Baronet whether, as there had been such a strong expression of sympathy on the part of the representatives of the people of Canada towards this country in regard to the present war, he had any intention of proposing any acknowledgment on the part of the Imperial Parliament, of the high sense they entertained of such a feeling being expressed by the legislative body of a colony which constituted one of the most important and most essential resources of this country.
 MR. DRUMMOND : I really must say, with all deference to the noble Lord, that he is under some misapprehension as to the rule of notices postponed until to-morrow, which certainly will not stand in the same position as they do to-day. Of course, knowing what the feeling of the House is. I do not wish to bring on the question which I have raised this evening; at the same time, I cannot consent to any postponement in its regard unless the noble Lord will agree to give precedence for to-morrow to the Motion of my hon. and learned Friend near me (Mr. Roebuck). And if the noble Lord will but agree to do so, I, on my part, will promise to condense my observations relative to the notice which I have given as much as possible, but which I shall persist in, in order that the returns for which I shall call may go before my hon. and learned Friend's Committee. But if these Motions are to have precedence, it must be done by order of the House.
 MR. ROEBUCK : I believe it is the wish of the House that my Motion shall have precedence of the Orders of the Day to-morrow. Therefore, if the noble Lord consents to my Motion coming on first to-morrow, I at once accede to the proposal for an adjournment.
 MR. ROEBUCK : I beg to postpone until to-morrow the notice of Motion which stands in my name for this day, for a Select Committee to inquire into the condition of our army before Sebastopol, and into the conduct of those departments of the Government whose duty it has been to minister to the wants of that army.
 MR. HAYTER : Sir, I have been requested by the noble Lord the Member for the City of London to state, that he has considered it consistent with his public duty respectfully to tender to Her Majesty his resignation of the office which he held as President of the Council, which resignation Her Majesty has been graciously pleased to accept. The noble Lord will take an early occasion of stating the grounds upon which he has been induced to come to that resolution.
 SIR G. GREY  begged to remind the hon. and learned Gentleman that these addresses were to Her Majesty; and he need hardly say that he had received Her Majesty's commands to express to those parties from whom they proceeded, her sentiments respecting them. With respect to the question put to him by the hon. and learned Gentleman as to the course which might be pursued by that House, he would take the opportunity of answering it on some future occasion.
 SIR G. GREY,  having laid certain papers on the table of the House, said: In accordance with the promise I made to the hon. and learned Member for North Staffordshire (Mr. Adderley) before the recess, I now lay these papers on the table, and I will take the opportunity of briefly explaining to him of what they consist. They are addresses and resolutions passed by the legislatures and public bodies in various British colonies in reference to the subject of the war in which this country is now engaged. In all the addresses which have been received, the House will be gratified to find an expression of feeling of the most devoted loyalty and attachment to Her Majesty, and also a feeling of the most ardent and earnest sympathy towards this country in reference to the war that is now being waged against Russia. Some of the addresses will be found to contain more substantial proofs of that attachment, by the great liberality evinced by those from whom they proceed, in contributing to the wants of the widows and orphans left destitute by the loss of their husbands and parents in the course of the war. Among them is a joint address from the Council and Legislative Assembly of Canada, tendering their congratulations to Her Majesty on the glorious successes which have attended Her army in the East, and expressing their readiness to contribute to the relief of the widows and
 941 l. l.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON : Sir, as the Motion of which I have given notice on the subject of national education stands first for this evening, I wish to state that, after the appeal which has just been made, I at once accede to the request of the noble Viscount, and will postpone the Motion until this day week. On looking, however, to the state of the notice paper, I find it is extremely uncertain whether I can bring it forward on that day; under these circumstances, therefore, I hope I may venture to trust that Her Majesty's Government will take care that hereafter I shall not be in a worse position relative to that Motion than I stand in at present.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, in answer to what has fallen from my hon. Friend the Member for Surrey (Mr. Drummond), I may observe that the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) has already postponed his Motion until tomorrow, and therefore it will take precedence. And it is the wish and intention
 943
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, after the exceedingly important announcement which has just been made by my hon. Friend, I trust the House will not think that Her Majesty's Government are trespassing too much upon its indulgence if I
 942
 COLONEL NORTH said, he entirely agreed with the Secretary at War, when he spoke of the disadvantages encountered by an English army from the regiments being so rarely brigaded together. There was not an officer who had served in India but what felt the advantages of that experience in his profession. At the same time, persons who had only gathered their knowledge from books, had no other idea of a brigade than that it was composed of a certain number of regiments. People might ridicule the camp at Chobham, but he regarded it as a most fortunate thing that this camp had been formed. The French officers who visited the camp had passed a very just critique upon the army they saw there; they said that there could be no finer troops in the world than the men, that the officers of the regiments thoroughly understood their duties, and that the manœuvres were perfect, but that the falling off was in the staff officers, who had no means of learning their duties practically. The only means that staff officers had of learning their duty was when a large body of troops was brought together. The only establishment we had which gave English officers the opportunity of learning staff duty—that of Sandhurst—was in such a miserable state of inefficiency that it was impossible for the officers of the staff to learn their duties theoretically, much less practically. In a few days he hoped to bring the state of the Sandhurst establishment before the House. Government had been blamed for much that had occurred; but he thought they ought to look for the parties to blame much nearer home:—they should rather find fault with that section of the House which had thought it the greatest feather in their caps to degrade the army and navy of the country. He remembered that when the late King first came to the throne the flank companies of the Guards were encamped at Windsor, and there was a great discussion raised as to who was to pay for the ammunition that was being fired away. Within a short period of that time he was present, in company with Lord Frederick Fitzclarence, whose loss must be sincerely deplored by all, at a Prussian camp of 43,000 men. He there saw soldiers learning all the business of a
 1012 1013 "Sir,—From several reports, we regret to find our brave defenders at the Crimea are not so capable of making that much-sought for beverage, a cup of coffee, while their friends, the French, obtain it quickly, the latter being served with rations roasted and ground, while Our poor men get theirs raw, and scarcely resting time, much less for the purpose of roasting and grinding their
 1014 "We have the most extensive plant in operation daily for the purposes, and capable of roasting, grinding, and packing large quantities of coffee; being honoured with a most extensive patronage of the trade for forty-one years past, we are conversant in treating the article (the roasting of which produces or destroys its flavour), which could be packed ready for use as fresh as if obtained at home on ordinary occasions. "Should your hon. Board consider our suggestion worthy of notice, and have the same prepared in any of Her Majesty's dockyards, we shall be most happy to render any assistance in arranging or suggesting any Nature to assist in promoting the comfort of our brave fellow-countrymen, the gallant defenders of our great nation. "Remaining yours most obediently, "JAMES COLLIER AND SON." "Admiralty, Dec. 13, 1854. "Gentlemen,—In acknowledging the receipt of your letter of the 11th instant, I have to refer you to the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury on the subject of roasting and grinding coffee for the troops in the Crimea. "I am, Gentlemen, your obedient servant, "T. T. GRANT." "Treasury Chambers, Dec. 22, 1854. "Gentlemen,—I am commanded by the Lords Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury to acquaint you, with reference to your letter dated the 15th instant, that the coffee sent out for the use of the army in the East is roasted in the naval establishments, and my Lords are not aware that any additional assistance is required to hasten the operation. "I am, Gentlemen, your obedient servant, "C. E. TREVELYAN. "Messrs. Collier and Son, 10, Foster Street, Bishopsgate." 1015
 THE MARQUESS OF GRANBY : Sir, I feel the same difficulty in knowing how to vote on this occasion as the hon. Member feels who has just sat down. I agree with the hon. Gentleman that the appointment of a Committee is not such a measure as we could honestly wish for, for I think it is one which would fail in its object, and that we cannot, therefore, conscientiously consent to it. I cannot see how some thirteen or fourteen Members of the House of Commons sitting here can judge of the actions of men 3,000 miles off in the Crimea. At the same time, we are told by the noble Lord the Secretary of the Home Department that he considers the Motion as one of want of confidence in the Government. I feel it impossible to give a vote of confidence in the Government, because I think at the beginning they entered upon the war unnecessarily, and that, since they have entered upon it, they have not conducted it with the vigour and ability necessary to bring it to a successful issue. We who think that the war has been unnecessarily entered upon have been placed in a position of great difficulty and delicacy; for previous to the war being declared, and when negotiations were going on, if I or any one else on this side ventured to express an opinion on the question, we were at once told that that was not the time for explaining our views and sentiments, that important negotiations were going on, and that, desirous as we were of peace, we, by giving utterance to our opinions, would absolutely endanger the success of the object we had in view. Parliament was prorogued. When Par-
 1020 "But Her Majesty's Government cannot avoid perceiving that the Ambassador of France at Constantinople was the first to disturb the  status quo 1021 "Permanently advanced to the centre of Armenia, into the midst of a Christian population, Russia holds the key both of the Persian and Turkish provinces, and whether she be disposed to extend her conquests east or west—to Teheran or Constantinople—no material obstacle can resist her progress" 1022 1023 1024
 MR. LINDSAY said, he would not enter
 1025 1026
 MR. VERNON SMITH said, he would compress his observations into the smallest possible space, because he was in hope that, as the division on the present Motion would be of such importance, it would take place that night. He entirely put faith in the first observation of the right hon. Gentleman who last spoke, that it was not his desire, nor the desire of those about him, to take possession of office by any course they might take upon the present occasion; for he could not see how any man in his senses could be so desperately ambitious, or cravingly hungry, as at the present moment to wish to occupy the Ministerial bench. The right hon. Gentleman had divided the question into two parts—one, concerning a censure or vote of want of confidence with respect to the Government; and the other relating to the necessity of the proposed inquiry. With respect to a question of confidence or no confidence in the present Administration, he should be prepared to vote quite at his case, for he could not imagine any one possessing such an amount of credulity as to have confidence in the Administration as it at this moment existed, if, indeed, it could be said to exist at all. He had given an independent and sincere, though critical support to the Administration hitherto, placing his confidence in three of its Members most particularly—the Marquess of Lansdowne, to whom he owed every species of allegiance, and for whom he entertained the highest possible admiration as a statesman; the noble Lord the Member for London, and the noble Lord the Home Secretary. The noble Lord the Member for London had now withdrawn from that Administration, and so far his (Mr. V. Smith's) confidence was withdrawn from the Government; and, excepting the Marquess of Lansdowne, who was not in this House, his remaining confidence was due and given to the noble Lord the Home Secretary. But what did that noble Lord tell the House that evening? Why, he said, "Give us your confidence to-night, and tomorrow we will make a new Administration." The noble Lord said that the Administration was under recomposition; but the Secretary for the Colonies, on the contrary, stated that he had nothing to do with the reconstruction of the Cabinet, and that he defended it as it stood at the present moment. Then whom was the House to give confidence to? Who was
 1058 1059
 SIR JOHN FITZGERALD : Sir, on a subject of such importance as is now before the House, I feel myself called upon to make some observations. 1061 Prince 1062
 MR. STAFFORD moved that the debate be adjourned until Monday.
 MR. S. HERBERT said, a waggon train did exist, but it was under the Commissariat until the alteration to which the hon. Gentleman referred had been made.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : Sir, I have felt some hesitation in rising at this moment through witnessing that which, I am sure, has been the subject of pain to every one present—the physical infirmity! under which my hon. and learned Friend was compelled to desist from his attempt to address the House in support of the Motion of which he has given notice. My hon. and learned Friend. I must say, was fully entitled to make that Motion, from the high position which he holds in this House, from the great talents by which he is distinguished, and likewise from the independence of character which has secured for him the respect and esteem of every Gentleman present. Sir, I still more regret the indisposition under which he labours, because it places me in a position of some difficulty, inasmuch as there has been no charge made, no case substantiated, or even attempted to be substantiated, to which I might apply myself
 983 984 985 986 987 988 "Before the middle of August there were in the six regiments of English cavalry 1,000 men dismounted, and the horses of 700 others were unserviceable. The baggage animals died, the artillery cattle were scarcely able to drag the guns, and one-third of the reserve ammunition was given over to the Spaniards because the ammunition carts were required for the conveyances of the sick, the number of which daily increased." "These troops (the Light Brigade), which only three weeks before had travelled sixty miles in a single march, were now with difficulty, and after many halts, able to reach the heights, although only four miles from the camp, and the sides of the mountain were covered with the carcases of many hundred animals who died in the effort." "The loss of the British army in September was considerable. Above 3,500 men had died of sickness or fallen into the enemy's hands. 1,500 horses had perished from want, exclusive of those lost in battle. To fill the cup of disaster, fever and diarrhœa, assailing bodies which fatigue and
 989 990 991 992 993 994 995 l l 996 997 998 999 1000 1001 1002
 LORD C. HAMILTON said, he believed the great mass of the Irish representatives were still unaware of the resignation of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, and, therefore, unless an adjournment were agreed to, it would be impossible that the opinion of the Irish constituencies could be heard on this question. adjourned Monday Monday
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, at the request of my noble Friend at the head of the Government, I have postponed to this day the statement I wish to make with respect to my resignation of the office which I lately had the honour to hold—that of President of the Council. I shall go at once to the matter, fearing that the statement I have to make may be prolonged more than I could wish it should be. On Tuesday last, when I was present in this House, the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) gave notice of a Motion for a Select Committee—
 "To Inquire into the condition of our Army before Sebastopol, and into the conduct of those Departments of the Government whose duty it has been to minister to the wants of that Army." 961 962 963 964 "From the other point of view the prospect is equally clear. We are in the midst of a great war. In order to carry on that war with efficiency, either the Prime Minister must be constantly urging, hastening, completing the military preparations, or the Minister of War must be strong enough to control other departments. Every objection of other Ministers—the plea of foreign interests to be attended to, of naval preparations not yet complete, and a thousand others, justifiable in the separate heads of departments, must be forced to yield to the paramount necessity of carrying on the war with efficiency of each service, and completeness of means to the end in view … If, therefore, the first consideration here presented lead to the conclusion that the Secretary of State for the War Department must be in the House of Commons, the latter considerations point to the necessity of having in that office a man who, from experience of mili-
 965 "I wish, however, that before you decide you should show my letter to the Duke of Newcastle. It was my intention in writing the letter to avoid throwing any blame upon him. Indeed, I think he deserves very great credit for the exertions he has made. But he has not had the authority requisite for so great a sphere, and has not been able to do all that might have been done with larger powers of control." "Your proposal being founded on the supposed impropriety of Herbert moving the Estimates, and the consequent necessity of the Secretary of State for War being in the House of Commons, renders the removal of the Duke of Newcastle from his present office unavoidable. But, although you would regard this as the inevitable result of an official arrangement, it is not to be supposed that it would be considered in this light by the public, or, indeed, by any impartial person. The dislocation of the Government would be so great, and the reason assigned for it apparently so inadequate, that it could only be considered as a mode of substituting one man for another. Although you may be far from entertaining any such desire, the transaction could receive no other interpretation. In justice to the Duke, I do not think that his colleagues, without very strong grounds, would wish to place him in such a position." 966 "I come, therefore, having cleared the ground of all these obstructions, to the real question, what are the requirements of the great war in which we are engaged? Setting aside all historical references, both on your part and mine, I think it is clear either that the Prime Minister must be himself the active and moving spirit of the whole machine, or the Minister of War must have delegated authority to control other departments. Neither is the case under the present arrangement." "The Cabinet has, it is true, in its recent meetings, done much to repair omissions; but a Cabinet is a cumbrous and unwieldy instrument for carrying on war. It can furnish suggestions, or make a decision upon a measure submitted to it, hut it cannot administer. What you want, therefore, I repeat, is a Minister of War of vigour and authority. As the welfare of the empire and the success of our present conflict are concerned, I have no scruple in saying so. Keep up, if you think right, as a temporary arrangement, a Secretary at War. Make it clear that it is temporary —that is to say, only to last till more complete consolidation can take place; but let Parliament and the country be assured that you have placed the conduct of the war in the hands of the fittest man who can be found for that duty." "After all, I think your letter plainly reduces the question to the simple issue of a personal preference, and the substitution of one man for another. In answer to my suggestion that some consideration was due to the Duke on the part of his colleagues, you say that you understood the Administration was founded on the principle of doing what was best for the public service, without regard to the self-love or even the acquired position of individuals. Undoubtedly this was the case; and I fully agree in thinking that the Duke of Newcastle would be the last man to wish for any exception to this rule in his favour. But I must observe that at the formation of the Government no such office as the War Department was contemplated; and when, subsequently, the Colonial Office was divided, no objection whatever was made to the choice of the War Department by the Duke; nor, as far as I am aware up to this moment, to his management of the office. Now, I think you will admit that, although another per-
 967 968 969 970 "Chesham Place, Jan. 23, 1855. "My dear Lord Aberdeen—Mr. Roebuck has given notice of a Motion to inquire into the conduct of the war. I do not see how this Motion is to be resisted; but, as it involves a censure upon the War Departments, with which some of my colleagues are connected, my only course is to tender my resignation. I, therefore, have to request you will lay my humble resignation of the office which I have the honour to hold before the Queen, with the expression of my gratitude for Her Majesty's kindness for many years. "I remain, my dear Lord Aberdeen, "Yours very truly, "J. RUSSELL." 971 972 973 "My noble Friend has dared to avow that there is a moral obligation upon the Christian Minister of a Christian country to exhaust every effort for the maintenance of peace before incurring a risk, not to say the guilt of war. But while he has not shrunk from the manly avowal of that opinion, I will, in justice to him, add this—and it is perfectly consistent with that opinion as to the moral obligation of maintaining peace, while peace can be maintained with honour—that there never was a Minister less inclined to sacrifice any essential interest, or to abate anything from the dignity and honour of this country, even for the purpose of securing that inestimable blessing." 974
 MR. LAYARD said, he had not come down to the House with the intention of taking a part in the debate, but he could scarcely give a silent vote after the speech of the right hon. Secretary at War. In treating this great question he had always wished to avoid mere questions of detail, but, as usual, the right hon. Gentleman compelled him once more to go into details with which the House had been over and over again troubled. He felt that in fol-
 1027 1028 1029 1030 1031 1032 Prince. Prince 1033 1034 l 1035 1036 1037 1038
 MR. LAYARD said, that the charge which had been made against him by the right hon. Gentleman was a most serious one. He begged to say that he had cast no imputation upon the British soldier. What he said was, that as a raw material
 1044
 COLONEL SIBTHORP said he had come down to the House from a sense of duty. He publicly thanked the hon. and learned
 1060 sauviter in modo fortiter in re.
 MR. H. DRUMMOND : The right hon. Gentleman shall understand, at least from me, plainly and intelligibly, that I do impute it to the gross incompetence of some man or men that an event has occurred without a parallel in history — that an army, three times victorious, has been left to perish—to be utterly destroyed— by the incompetence of those whose duty it was to have supported it. The right hon. Gentleman says, "Come forward and make your charge;" but how can we do that until we have got information? The whole country is in wrath with somebody, but no one seems to know who that somebody should be. That is the plain question we want to have answered—we want to know who it is that is responsible for results that have excited general wrath and indignation. And is this wrath confined to one party, or is there not a burst of indignation from one end of the kingdom to the other? Is it not re-echoed from Germany and from France? Is it not asked in all their papers, what can the English Government be composed of? Was ever such cruelty exhibited towards men as that with which they have treated their army? I should have thought the right hon. Gentlemen themselves would be the very first to thank us for coming forward and asking for information. I am not content to throw the blame on a Government. I can understand that it is very decent and proper and right for all the Gentlemen sitting there to put themselves forward in order to screen their colleagues; but it is not satisfactory to us. Does any one mean to say that it is the fault of the right hon. Gentleman that the army is starving? No; but it is the fault of the Government. Does any one say that it is the fault of the noble Lord? No; but it is that of the Government. It is the Government in their collective ca-
 1003 A laugh.
 MR. H. DRUMMOND : The army remained for a considerable time in that unhealthy place Varna, no one knows why. Sending an army without a waggon train is like sending a ship to sea without masts or steam. An army is not merely a collection of regiments, but consists of various branches, cavalry, infantry, artillery, and the Commissariat. But I am not going to enter into the military question; I shall take the vulgarest-looking view of the whole sub-
 1004 1005 1006 1007 1008 l 1009 1010 1011
 MR. ROEBUCK then rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice—
 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the condition of our Army before Sebastopol, and into the conduct of those Departments of the Government whose duty it has been to minister to the wants of that Army"— 980 981 982 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the condition of our Army before Sebastopol, and into the conduct of those Departments of the Government whose duty it has been to administer to the wants of that Army."
 MR. M. MILNES said, he regretted very much that in a debate of such overpowering interest, and one which in itself was a kind of inquisition into the cause of the misfortunes of our army, any accidental circumstances, however important, should have been allowed to creep in. Whatever might be the peculiar circumstances of the case, and whatever interest they might have had in the speech of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, he believed that on that (the Ministerial) side of the House there was but one feeling of the deepest regret that he had separated himself from his colleagues. He (Mr. Milnes) felt the more regret at that separation, for, notwithstanding the able vindication of the noble Lord, he could not disguise from his mind that the moment was not one in which that resignation ought to have been made. Sympathising as he did with the noble Lord in many of the grounds of his objections, and agreeing that the choice of
 1016 1017 1018 l. 1019
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, I wish to state very shortly to the House the view which I take of the present Motion. I am not certain that I should have taken the smallest share in the present discussion if it had not been for one or two remarks that have fallen from the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down. One of these was that this Motion, if carried, will be detrimental to the public interests and to the administration of affairs in this country; the other, that there had been an unwillingness displayed on this side of the House to take that course which would best become us, namely, that, if we aspired to the Government, and if we disapproved of the conduct of Ministers, we ought to have come down boldly and proposed frankly a vote of want of confidence in Her Majesty's Government. Now, I can assure the House on this point—namely, that of aspiring to the government of the country—I have always said in private, and I do not hesitate to repeat in public, that, in my opinion, it would be a great misfortune to the country if the Government were changed at the present moment. It would, Sir, in my opinion, be much better for the public interests that the Members of the Government should reconstruct themselves in such a manner as that they should be enabled to administer our public affairs, instead of causing all that confusion which a change in the Administration must necessarily occasion. In respect to the other charge—that the Motion, if carried, would be detrimental to the public interests—I will content myself with stat-
 1050 1051 1052 1053 1054 primâ facie Primâ facie 1055 1056 Memoirs of Mr. Fox, 1057
 SIR G. GREY : Yes, that as raw material he was excellent, but that that material, in consequence of the system, was so deteriorated that it made him a mere machine. Now, Sir William Napier, in a passage of his work, gives this description of the qualities of a British soldier—
 "That the British infantry soldier is more robust than the soldier of any other nation can scarcely be doubted by those who, in 1815, observed his powerful frame, distinguished amidst the united armies of Europe; and notwithstanding his habitual excess in drinking, he sustains fatigue and wet and the extremes of cold and heat with incredible vigour." "When completely disciplined—and three years are required to accomplish this—his port is lofty and his movements free, the whole world cannot produce a nobler specimen of military bearing; nor is the mind unworthy of the outward man. He does not, indeed, possess that presumptuous vivacity which would lead him to dictate to his commanders, or even to censure real errors, although he may perceive them; but he is observant and quick to comprehend his orders, full of resources under difficulties, calm and resolute in danger, and more than usually obedient and careful of his officers in moments of imminent peril. It has been asserted that his undeniable firmness in battle is the result of a phlegmatic constitution uninspired by moral feeling. Never was a more stupid calumny uttered! Napoleon's troops fought in bright fields where every helmet caught some beams of glory, but"—I am now come to a passage, the accuracy of which I do not admit, as applicable to the present time—"the British soldier conquered under the cold shade of aristocracy. No honours waited his daring, no despatch gave his name to the applause of his countrymen, his life of danger and hardship was uncheered by hope, his death unnoticed. Did his heart sink therefore? Did he not endure with surpassing fortitude the sorest of ills, sustain the most terrible assaults in battle unmoved, overthrow with incredible energy every opponent, and at all times prove, that while no physical military qualification was wanting, the fount of honour was also full and fresh within him!" 1045 1046 1047 Gazette 1048 1049
 SIR G. GREY : Sir, it is with deep reluctance that I offer myself to this House to take any part in the present debate; but I feel that I should be shrinking from a public duty if I merely gave a silent vote against the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Sheffield, and if I did not record in the most distinct and emphatic terms that I give my vote without the slightest doubt or hesitation, thinking that I should be betraying my public duty were I to sanction the precedent of committing an inquiry such as that proposed to us to any Committee of fifteen Gentlemen selected from the body of this House. The objections stated by several hon. Gentlemen in the course of the debate, and by none more
 1039 1040 1041 1042 1043
 MR. KNIGHTLEY in reply to the challenge of the Government, that they should have proposed a vote of want of confidence, quoted the language of Mr. Fox when a similar remark was made to him at the close of the Addington Administration. The Motion for the removal of that Administration was lost by 240 to 203, but still Mr. Addington retired. When Mr. Pitt was called upon to take the Government he perceived that the national indignation was chiefly concentrated upon one particular section of the Cabinet—that intrusted with the War Department—and he accordingly removed the obnoxious Members—the Prime Minister, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the First Lord of the Admiralty, and the Secretary of State for War and the Colonies—and retained the least objectionable. Now very nearly the same course might be pursued with regard to the present Administration; and if the precedent were followed, it would be hailed with satisfaction throughout the length and breadth of the land; for he believed that the people of this country had made up their minds that so long as the Earl of Aberdeen was Prime Minister, the Duke of Newcastle Secretary of War, and the right hon. Gentleman opposite Chancellor of the Exchequer, the war would never be conducted with proper vigour or a safe and honourable peace concluded.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON said, he had hoped that the debate would have been concluded this evening; but if it were thought by a considerable portion of the House that, looking to the importance of the subject, there should be an adjournment of it till Monday, he should certainly not oppose the proposition. He hoped, however, that the House would feel that it was really incumbent upon it to pronounce an opinion on this Motion not later than Mon-
 1063
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I cannot allow the address of my noble Friend to pass without some observation on the part of Her Majesty's Government. I must, in the first place, assure my noble Friend and the House that nothing could be more painful to me, either officially or personally, than the step which my noble Friend thought it his duty to take in separating himself fret the Government of which we were both Members. There have, no doubt, at particular times, been temporary differences between my noble Friend and myself, which may, for a time, have appeared to estrange us from each other; but I can assure him and the House that those differences have passed away from my mind, and I know they have passed away from his; and that whether we act together, or whether we are divided in politics, the high esteem which I feel for his high character and for his great abilities, and the deep friendship with which I am animated towards him, never can be affected either by the past, the present, or the future. Now, Sir, undoubtedly I must admit that every public man has a perfect right, without any impeachment on the part of any person, whenever he thinks his continuance in office cannot be reconciled with his opinions or his sense of duty, to retire;—however those from whom he separates may regret his loss, still, if he acts in the manner I have stated, he stands perfectly free from all reproach. Now, Sir, with
 975 976 977 sine quâ 978 minus 979
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY said, in replying to the question of the hon. Member, he could assure him that it was not through any neglect of his right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Admiralty that he was not present to answer the question for himself, for he regretted to say that his right hon. Friend was extremely unwell, being confined to his bed. In regard to the question now put, he could only say
 1116 Himalaya
 COLONEL NORTH said, he wished to ask the noble Lord the President of the Council whether the widows and orphans of those men who, serving under the Foreign Enlistment Bill, might fall timing the present war, were to participate in the advantages of the Patriotic Fund; also, if the widows and orphans of the officers of our army, navy, and marines who might fall in this war, were to participate in the advantages of that fund?
 MR. SHAFTO ADAIR said, that as a member of the Financial Committee of the Patriotic Fund, he could give all answer to one of the questions asked by the hon. and gallant Gentleman. The case of the widows and orphans of officers was before the consideration of the Finance Committee, who thought it might be treated as exceptional, some small assistance being given as a temporary grant, in the first place, to the orphans to the extent allowed by the Queen's regulation; and next, that to the widows of officers below the rank of lieutenant colonel in the Army, and captain in the Navy, a provision might be given not exceeding one-third of the pension allowed them. With respect to the widows of officers in the lower grades,
 1118 l.,
 COLONEL DUNNE said, he wished to know whether, in the case of the widows of officers receiving money from the fund, their title to the pension ordinarily granted would be prejudiced?
 MR. H. BERKELEY said, he begged to ask the right hon. Secretary at War, firstly, whether any correspondence, and what, had taken place between Field Marshal Lord Raglan and Her Majesty's Government on the subject of the melancholy disaster which occurred at the battle of Balaklava, where the lives of so many of our gallant men of the light cavalry were lost, and whether there was any objection to lay such papers on the table; secondly, Whether due inquiry had been made, or was contemplated on the subject?
 COLONEL KNOX : Does the right hon. Gentleman know that the correspondent of the  Times
 COLONEL KNOX said, he wished to ask whether rations had been given to any other reporter but the reporter of the  Times?
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, he felt it necessary to rise in order to repel the unjust attack which had been made by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) on the Admiralty, as to the mode of carrying on the war. He would defy the right hon. Member to show any one letter or complaint of want of transport, or want of means that were to be furnished by the Board of Admiralty, since the commencement of the war. The right hon. Gentleman had evidently got out of his depth when he talked about transports and the manner in which the army was moved to Varna, and from thence to the Crimea. Lord Raglan did not complain of the deficiency of transports; he complained there were no baggage mules or horses in the Crimea to carry his army. The right hon. Gentleman said there were no tents. [Mr. HENLEY said, he did not say that.] He begged the hon. Gentleman's pardon if he had misunderstood him. The horses were not there, but the horse transports were filled with horses, soldiers, and artillery; and to show there was no deficiency, part of the French army, which was left behind because there was not sufficient transports to bring them over, our transports went back to assist in carrying them. Sir Edmund Lyons, who had exerted himself throughout in a very energetic and distinguished manner, superintended for the first three weeks the landing of the stores, and everything else which came into the port of Balaklava; but to attempt to feed an army of 30,000 or 40,000 men from such a place as Balaklava would be about as practicable as attempting to feed the whole population of London from St. James's Square. At the port of Balaklava there was only a small beach, at which it was impossible to lay ships in tiers. As one vessel went out, another came in, and they were obliged to lie by the side singly, in order to give ingress and egress. But all the complaint appeared to fall on the Admiralty, as if they had not availed themselves of all the resources of the country, whereas there were letters from Liverpool and other mercantile ports, which stated it was impossible for them to find more transports than the Admiralty had already taken up, and then they had been obliged to go abroad to look for additional ships to carry horses. It was very easy for hon. Gentlemen to state erroneous matters as facts, but he (Admiral Berkeley) believed there was no one
 1146
 MR. MILES  said, he had no wish to go into a consideration of what had been the conduct of our generals, or to discuss the bearing or movement of our army, because that was not embraced in the Motion before them. No; what he wanted the House to consider was, whether the Commissariat, Transport, and Ordnance Departments had been conducted as they ought to have been by the present Government. That was the issue upon which the debate must be taken, and upon which alone the conduct of the Government could be questioned. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War said that the Government had been subjected to much censure and obloquy in this matter, but it was not from that side that they had experienced opposition. On the contrary, they had done everything in their power to assist the Government in carrying out
 1155 1156
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he wished to say a few words in explanation of the vote he was about to give, because there were many reasons why a searching inquiry should take place. They had heard from the hon. Member for North Northamptonshire (Mr. Stafford), who spoke only of what he had himself seen, statements which must have caused pain to every mind, and which of themselves would have been sufficient to induce hon. Members to vote for inquiry; but if the object of the House was to put an end to the evils that now existed, the real question was, would the proposed Committee effect that object? If he thought the proposed inquiry would effect that object, he should vote for it at once, whatever might be its effect on the Government; but he did not believe that an inquiry at the present time, and in the present circumstances, would have any beneficial effect. Now, what was it they wanted? Better administration of their military affairs—immediate decision—and an immediate infusion of energy into the working of every department. Now, he would ask any Gentleman who had ever been on a Select Committee of a similar nature, whether its first effect had not been to paralyse the action of whatever department was under consideration. The whole business of the department to be inquired into would have its attention taken up; the time of the clerks would be engaged in preparing returns; the chiefs would be looking after the progress
 1157 1158 1159 1160
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he would beg to trespass upon the House for a few minutes in order to explain the motives by which he was actuated in voting as he proposed to vote with reference to the Motion under their consideration. His experience of the proceedings of that House was sufficient to demonstrate to him that hon. Members were frequently called upon to vote ostensibly upon one question, while virtually that vote must be recorded upon a question totally different. In such a position were they placed with reference to the subject immediately before them; and in dealing with that subject, he must express himself as agreeing to a certain extent with the right hon. Baronet who had just resumed his seat, when he said that as an abstract question he could not give his support to the proposition of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield. He so far concurred with the right hon. Baronet, because, in the first place, he believed that the first sentence of that resolution proposed a course which was totally impracticable. If the Committee
 1161 1162 1163
 MR. CRAVEN BERKELEY said, he also wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman two questions—first, whether the order which had been published in all the newspapers, as emanating from Lord Raglan to Lord Lucan for the light brigade of cavalry to make the disastrous charge at Balaklava, was the correct order or not? It ran thus—
 "Lord Raglan wishes the cavalry to advance rapidly to the front; follow the enemy, and try to prevent their carrying away the guns. A troop of horse artillery may accompany. The French cavalry is on the left. Immediate."
 MR. H. BERKELEY said, he would give notice that he should move an Address to the Queen, praying that an inquiry should be instituted into the conduct of Lord Lucan for ordering the charge of light cavalry under circumstances which precluded the possibility of success, which made disaster inevitable, and which consequently led to a wanton sacrifice of human life.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT said, he believed. that the words quoted by the hon. Gentleman were an accurate transcript of the order given by Lord Raglan; and with respect to the second question, that a clasp was granted by Her Majesty to the men engaged in the charge referred to.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT in reply, stated, that it had been brought to the knowledge of the Government that rations had been given by the Commissariat to the correspondents of the daily press. This, however, had not been done by the authority of the Government, and he appre-
 1120 "Observing that a question had been asked in the House of Commons relative to the issue of rations to any of the correspondents of the daily press during the present campaign in the East, I beg to state that in May last I requested Commissary General Filder to enable Mr. Russell, the correspondent of the  Times, Times' "It is said that Lord Raglan has refused to permit the correspondents of the newspapers to accompany the force into the field. Of course, anything I may write to you on such a subject must yield to his Lordship's expressed wishes and intentions." "He gave directions that any of the reporters for the London daily press with the army, who might be so circumstanced that they could not purchase provisions, should be allowed to draw rations on paying their value."
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT said, he could answer the question of his hon. Friend up to a certain point. When the statement that no preparations had been made for the reception of the sick and wounded men at Portsmouth appeared in the newspapers, he lost no time in writing to Lord Hardinge to beg he would institute an inquiry, which he found that nobleman had already done. He also wrote to the Treasury, inquiring whether or not there was any truth in the statement of the conduct of the Custom-house officers, and whether, if it were true, some change
 1117 Himalaya Himalaya Himalaya,
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT replied, that he had already stated that the order was not sanctioned by the Treasury.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT said, he had read an extract from Commissary General Filder's communication on the subject, which was all the information he possessed.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : I am not aware of anything of that kind.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT said, that, before replying to the questions of the hon. Gentleman, he thought that in referring to the charge of the light brigade at Balaklava another term than "melancholy disaster" might have been used. Lord Raglan had certainly made a communication to the Government on the subject, but he was not in a position at the present moment to lay the despatch on the
 1119
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT said, he should think not.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT said, with respect to the first part of the question asked by the hon. and gallant Gentleman, he apprehended that the subscribers to the Patriotic Fund intended to devote their money exclusively to the widows and orphans of those serving in the English army, and it would not be possible, in his opinion, to divert any sums subscribed for one purpose to another. The Foreign Enlistment Act was not in existence when the greater part of the Patriotic Fund was subscribed.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Mr. Speaker, I have not, as I have stated on a previous occasion, the smallest intention of entering upon the general subject of debate; but some personal allusions have been made to myself which I cannot altogether omit to notice. I do not mean to enter further into the question of the differences I may have had with the Earl of Aberdeen, or into the foundation of the statement made by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. I do not contest the accuracy of any one statement made by him, but I must say that I think that if I were to enter into various particulars as to the letters I wrote in the beginning of October to the Duke of Newcastle, to which reference has been made, and the answers which I received, and as to the circumstances attending my subsequent representations upon that and upon various other subjects with
 1220 1221 1222
 MR. A. STAFFORD said, the claim which he had upon the indulgence of the House upon this occasion was his being able to state things which he himself saw in the neighbourhood of the war, and some of the transactions in which he had borne a part. When he was witnessing those transactions, he little anticipated the strong feeling that evidently existed in England upon this subject; and still less did he imagine that it would come before the House in the shape in which they were now called upon to consider it. The noble Lord the Member for London, in his speech the other night, informed the House that the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton was at this moment, in effect, the War Minister, and if he (Mr. Stafford) did not call him the Minister for the Home Department, it was because he really did not know what office the noble Lord at present filled. The noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, in
 1122 1123 l. 1124 Times' 1125 1126 1127 1128 1129 1130 1131 1132 1133 1134 1135
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, after the remarkable admissions which have been made in the course of this debate by Members of the Government, it is unnecessary for me to-night at all to indulge in that "slow" process which the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer has been reminded of by an hon. Baronet, and to which he so good-humouredly alluded. Sir, this debate was commenced by an hon. and learned Gentleman to whom we always listen with attention and respect; and when he suddenly ceased from addressing us, remembering that he was an accomplished orator, I almost at first supposed that it was an artifice of rhetoric when he merely moved the Resolution which he has now, Sir, placed in your hands; for if there ever were a Resolution upon a question of national interest submitted to the House of Commons which required no arguments to support, and no arts of oratory to enforce it and recommend it to the adoption of the House, it was, in my opinion, the Resolution which the hon. and learned Gentleman submitted to us on Friday last—because, before the hon. and learned Gentleman had risen, in pursuance of his notice, to bring that Resolution before our consideration, a noble Lord, who had been but within a few hours the chief Minister of the Crown in this House, had admitted the case of the hon. and learned Gentleman—had made a public declaration which, in my mind, rendered the step taken by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, not only justifiable, but necessary and inevitable; and it appeared to me impossible, after the admission, or rather the declaration, of the noble Lord, that any Gentleman in this House could have found himself justified in opposing the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman. This, therefore, brings me to the closing observations of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The right hon. Gentleman has taken the instance of the inquiry into the Walcheren expedition, and has said to my right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole), "You have urged upon us what is a false resemblance between the present state of affairs and that which existed at the time of the investigation into Walcheren; and I will show you points of difference which you cannot contest." I entirely agree with the Chancellor of the
 1207 1208 "If you lay down that doctrine, you may as well lay down the doctrine that a man is condemned because he is put upon his trial." 1209 1210 1211 1212 1213 laches 1214 coup de main 1215 1216 Bubb Doddington. 1217 idem sentire de republicâ 1218 1219
 SIR BULWER LYTTON : Sir, I shall dismiss very briefly that part of this discussion which refers to the abstract propriety of appointing the Select Committee of Inquiry moved for by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck). I shall leave the Government to direct their answer upon that point not so much to us as to their late colleague, who resigned office rather than resist that inquiry, and who, I conclude, would vote for it but for the natural delicacy of his position towards the Cabinet he so lately adorned. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War and the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Colonies have dwelt on the danger of establishing such a precedent as the appointment of this Committee might furnish. They may dismiss that apprehension, for nothing but
 1168 1169 analecta majora 1170 laches 1171 "There are 20,000 French troops encamped a short distance from our troops. They are in every respect better equipped and provided for than ours. Their Government have provided their officers with mules for the conveyance of their baggage and everything else they require. We have to buy mules for ourselves, which cannot be done at Gallipoli, as the French Government have already bought them all up." 1172 "The French soldiers fraternise freely with ours, and to-day we saw them giving ours some of their bread, of which they have a most bountiful supply, while ours have not enough." "I hope something will be done soon, as I should look forward with horror to another summer in this country. We have now considerable difficulty in getting supplies, and frequently have to live on bread and cheese for a day or two, as ration meat cannot be eaten, though the officers eat it when the men will not." "July and August," says the officer there encamped, "are unhealthy months, as they are all dry and very hot, and the deposits from the lakes, which overflow in the spring, dry up and create miasma. Nearly all our cases of cholera occur in the night, and are mostly fatal in six hours." "Of course they keep secret where we are going; but we believe that it is to take Odessa, which is full of corn granaries, &c. I think this is the best thing we could do, and winter there
 1173 M Culloch's Geographical Dictionary, Gazetteer of the World, 1174 1175 "What generous man would indeed attack the absent agent not here to answer for himself, when there sit before us, face to face, the employers responsible for his errors so long as they continue him in office?" "I am disposed," said Lord Grenville, "to believe that in the situation of the commander he did all that could reasonably be expected, or was possible to accomplish. The error was in the plan, and the want of foresight and information on the part of His Majesty's Ministers... The place, the situation, nay the season of the year, were chosen by them. There is a season of the year when the air of that place is most pestilential and dangerous; yet, to that place, and at that time, say His Majesty's Ministers, we will send the flower of the British Army—we will not send it at a time when its operations may be advantageous, but we will send it when from every information it will be destroyed more by disease than by the sword." [1  Hansard, 1176 1177 1178
 MR. RICE  said, he quite agreed with the last speaker that it would be of great service to the army if its officers should have occasional opportunities during peace of studying military movements in the field; but he must at the same time remind him that the present was the first Administration who attempted to give such practical instruction in staff and brigade duties. It was under the auspices of the present Secretary at War that the camp at Chobham was established, but nothing of the sort was attempted by the former Administration, of which the right hon. Gentleman was a Member. He had heard the statement of the hon. Member for North Northamptonshire (Mr. Stafford) relative to the distress of our countrymen at Scutari and elsewhere with the deepest pain; but it was satisfactory to know that they had the consolation and advantage of individual sympathy such as our suffering countrymen never had in former wars. With regard to the Motion under discussion, he quite agreed with the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley), that inquiry ought not to be refused on account of its terms, and it was not its words that would induce him to vote against the Motion. He knew the strong feeling that existed in the country with regard to the sufferings of the army, but would any inquiry remove that suffering? Would the proposed Committee be productive of good or evil? That was the real question for them to consider. He apprehended it would be practically impossible for a Committee of that House sitting upstairs to inquire into the state of the army before Sebastopol. But there was no doubt about the sufferings of the army; that was patent to everybody; and what was required was, not an inquiry, but an immediate and decisive remedy. Well, then, what he had
 1154
 MR. MUNTZ,  amid loud cries of "Divide!" observed, that as he had been so unfortunate as not to catch the Speaker's eye during the course of the evening, although he had frequently risen, he hoped the House would allow him a few minutes to explain the grounds upon which he should give his vote in support of the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield. He would previously observe that if the House were to follow the advice of the noble Lord, and to act according to the wishes of the country, the first thing they would do would be to turn
 1227
 MR. RICH  said, he thought that, as the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War had been compelled to address the House before the case for this Motion had been fully opened, owing to the indisposition of the hon. and learned Mover, it would be but fair that the right hon. Gentleman should have an opportunity of replying to the different allegations that had been subsequently made. Many personal and party considerations, no doubt, entered into the question now before them, but he hoped the House would decide it upon higher grounds. The military reputation of the country in the eyes of the world, and, perhaps, the existence of the remnant of our gallant army, were involved in their vote that night. It was when thus viewed the country would appreciate the conduct of the noble Lord the Member for London, which had been so unfairly animadverted upon. That noble Lord had been charged with throwing over his colleagues and deserting his post at the approach of danger, but his whole career was an answer to such unworthy aspersions. It was well known that his nature rather courted than shrunk from danger, and so now, while his late colleagues resisted, he was courting inquiry into his own and their conduct. The noble Lord had felt that his duty to his country was superior to mere considerations of party or of delicacy for the feelings of his colleagues, and in that spirit he had patriotically acted on this principle. He had been accused by the hon. Gentleman who last addressed the
 1164 1165 1166 primâ facie 1167
 MR. ROEBUCK : Sir, I will answer, as it is my duty to do, the question which has been put to me by the hon. Member for Finsbury; and I may say, in reply, that when I framed the Motion before the House I intended to carry into effect the inquiry as expressed in the words under your notice. Nothing which I have seen or heard during this debate has induced me to alter my original determination, and in that determination I still continue. If the House will only grant the Committee, I promise to proceed to its nomination. I hope the House will pardon me if I now proceed to say a few words in reply to some observations which have been made during the debate. The objections which have been made to my Motion, if stripped of the verbiage in which they were couched, amount to this—that, if the Motion be carried, the action of the Government will be paralysed; that inquiry will render inefficient the action of the Minister of War, and will interfere with the command of the army. Now, what are the' circumstances under which this inquiry is proposed? Hon. Members themselves admit that the disasters, to which the Motion relates, have occurred. The Ministers themselves acknowledge that the condition of the army is, to use the words of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, "heart-rending," This House has given Ministers the powers necessary for carrying on the war, and has given to them also an unlimited command of money. In fact, Ministers have made upon this House no demand for the vigorous prosecution of the war to which we have not readily acceded. But what, notwithstanding all those facili-
 1229 1230
 MR. HENLEY  said, he should have doubted that the hon. Gentleman who had last addressed them was still a member of Her Majesty's Government, if it had not been so stated by himself. The hon. Gentleman and the right hon. Secretary at War seemed to have agreed upon the parts they were respectively to take in the debate before the House. On Friday night, when great fault was found with the mal-administration of the army, the right hon. Secretary of War expatiated at length on the provision which had been made for transporting troops and stores; and now the hon. Secretary for the Admiralty defended the Secretary at War, by impugning the military system of the country. That system, however, existed when the Government took office; and yet the hon. Member for Middlesex would make out that the troops died because the Horse Guards was unchanged, and because the staff of the army was not composed according to his fancy. There was, however, one plain question which they had not answered, though often put—why had not transports been provided in due time to bring necessaries to the army, from the want of which they had perished by thousands? What answer had been given to the complaint—that waggons, and huts, and clothing had not arrived in the Crimea in time? The hon. Gentleman had commenced his speech by sneering at the remarkable statement made by the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Northamptonshire (Mr. Stafford). [Mr. OSBORNE intimated dissent.] Why, did not the hon. Gentleman speak of the "panoramic description of horrors" drawn by his (Mr. Henley's) hon. Friend? He would, however, come to the real question. Had the Government made the best use of the means for carrying on the war at their disposal? Had they not known when they undertook the war, that there was, as the right hon. Secretary at War had described it, only a collection of regiments, like an armed police, and not an army? Did the
 1140 1141 1142 1143 1144 1145
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Sir, I did not collect from the interesting and panoramic view submitted to the House by the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, that he at all intended to include the naval administration, as it is at present constituted, in the obloquy which he has thrown upon various branches of the military service. It has been some consolation to me in the course of this debate to feel that, though this Motion necessarily includes the department with which it is my pride to be connected, no hon. Gentleman, however dissatisfied with the general management of the war, has made any direct charge against that Board over which my right hon. Friend (Sir J. Graham) presides with so much credit to himself, and, I believe, satisfaction to the country. Even the discursive and somewhat splenetic Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Layard), who has recently returned from his "coloneling" in the Crimea, and who is so unsparing and amphibious in his criticisms by land and water that he has detracted from the merits of both generals. and admirals, has not yet ventured to arraign the conduct of the Admiralty. I might be content to rest the vindication of my vote in opposition to the Motion of my hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Roebuck), whose state of health no man deplores more sincerely than I do—I might be content, I say, to rest my vote simply on the ground that the Board with which I am connected had done its duty; but, Sir, I am not content to rest my opposition to the Motion on such narrow and personal ground as that; I cannot reconcile it with my sense of justice to sacrifice one Minister to the faults of a system which has been well defined by an hon. Gentleman on the other side of the House as a system of the middle ages. This system has been sanctioned and confirmed by this House and by former Ministries—sanctioned and confirmed in spite of numerous Motions by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), and others, in spite of deliberate reports years ago for a reform of the whole military system. Will any man tell me that our military system, as existing at present, has tended to develope or bring forward military talent or genius?
 1136 1137 l. l. l. 1138 [Laughter.] Non possum vivere tecum, nec sine te. 1139
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES said, that his hon. and gallant Friend had confined himself entirely to the case of the man Williams, but he (Mr. Milnes) intended his question to apply generally to the case of the sick and wounded men landed at Portsmouth from the ship in question. It had been alleged that when that steamer arrived there was no one to receive them excepting the people congregated about, and that the poor suffering men were loft for hours together on the shore, and were also treated without proper consideration by the Custom-house officers.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES said, he had given notice of a question which he wished to put to the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty, whom, however, he did not see in his place. The question of which he had given notice was, whether any correspondence had taken place between the Admiralty and the authorities at Portsmouth, with respect to an alleged neglect by them in landing the sick and wounded soldiers and seamen who had recently arrived from the East in the  Himalaya,
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he wished to put a question to his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Sheffield. The noble Viscount the Secretary of State for the Home Department had told the House that they were called upon to sanction, not only a most dangerous precedent, but also a Motion that could not be carried out; and that if not carried out, the public would be disappointed, and that the real object of the Motion was certainly different from what its terms purported. Now, if that were the case, there could not be a greater fraud on the public, and he, therefore, wished to ask his hon. and learned Friend whether, in the event of his carry-
 1228
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I do not know that I can recollect an occasion on which there has been before the House—I will not say so great a question, but I must say, so remarkable a combination of questions, each of which is great. In this country even the dismissal of the Government is enough to constitute a great party conflict, and to attract immense public interest; but the fate of the Government, though it be an element in this discussion, is the smallest among the elements that it involves; because, Sir, along with the fate of the Government is involved the far exceeding question of the condition of your army, and along with the condition of the army is involved that which, if at the present moment it be regarded with less lively interest, is always of the deepest interest to the people of England—namely, the duty and functions of the House of Commons to consider and r apply a remedy to great national evils. With respect to the Government, what they desire and what they have a right to ask is, that their position should be
 1179 [Laughter] 1180 Cries of 1181 1182 1183 "At once, as far as angel's ken, he views The dismal situation waste and wild." 1184 "Ad miseras preces, Decurrere et votis pacisci, Ne Cypriæ Tyritæque merces Addant avaro divitias mari." 1185 1186 1187 1188 1189 The Times 1190 [Laughter.] l. 1191 M' Culloch's Geographical Dictionary. 1192 Times, 1193 1194 "You have sent an army to the East in numbers and efficiency such as never before left these shores; an army likewise unequalled in its equipments; but that army is perishing for want of food, while upon the shores of the port of Balaklava there are rotting stores of every possible description sufficient to provide for the wants of two such armies." 1195 1196 1197 1198 1199 1200 Memoirs and Correspondence of Mr. Fox "The preliminaries of peace had been signed, and were laid before Parliament on the 27th of January, 1783. The terms were not, in general, approved of, and the Ministers thought a vote of approbation by Parliament absolutely necessary for their continuance in office. Lord North declared that he would oppose any vote of censure, but that he could not concur in a vote of approbation. 'If they come for an address,' said he, 'they make us judges, and they must make out their case.'" 1201 1202 1203 1204 "I cannot consent to delegate the right of inquiry on this occasion to any Select or Secret Committee, by whom the course of investigation might be misdirected, or its bounds limited,—before whom, possibly, garbled extracts, called documents, might be laid by Ministers themselves, in order to produce a partial discussion. But I will not expose the case to such a risk. It is in a Committee of the whole House alone we can have a fair case, because, if necessary, we can examine oral evidence at the bar."—[1  Hansard, 1205 1206
 MR. BERESFORD  observed that the hon. Member for Middlesex and the hon. and gallant Admiral who had just sat down had defended the Admiralty, to which department both of them belonged, and had declared that everything there was conducted with order and despatch; but the hon. Member for Middlesex at the same time said he was constrained to admit that at the Horse Guards everything was wrong and rotten to the core. How was it that the hon. Gentleman should have belonged for upwards of two years to an Administration which suffered such rottenness to exist in so important a department of the State, and that, too, under the control of Government? He (Mr. Beresford) did not, however, think it necessary to enter upon a defence of the army in reply to the hon. Gentleman. He thought the conduct of that army spoke sufficiently for itself, and justified itself. As to the statement of the hon. Gentleman that the army of England was rotten from top to bottom, he hoped that England might ever possess an army which, in that hon. Gentleman's estimation, was rotten from top to bottom. He, though he intended to vote for the Motion of the hon. and learned Member, must acknowledge that he did not approve of the first paragraph of that Motion. It was a work of supererogation, for all too well knew already the actual condition of the army before Sebastopol. The noble Lord the Member for London had declared that their condition was "heart-rending."
 1147 1148 Times 1149 1150 1151 "It is necessary that arrangements shall be adopted to enable the troops to take advantage of our success in offensive operations and even to maintain a defensive position." "First, the formation of magazines of provisions; and, secondly, the means of transport to enable them to move forward the same." "There ought to be attached to the magazines from 3,000 to 4,000 mules, and to go with the divisions of the army in connection with them 1,500 other mules, and 100 carts." 1152 "The supplies were provided, half the business only was done; the other half consisted in providing the means of transport." "That there were ample means for the siege of the strongest fortress, but what they were wanting in was the means of transporting the military stores and the ordnance to the position where they would be made use of." 1153
 MR. BERESFORD said, he wished to inquire whether Sir Charles Trevelyan could issue such an order to the Commissariat in the East without its being sanctioned by the Treasury?
 MR. BERESFORD said, he would now beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War, whether, during the present campaign in the East, rations had been supplied by the Commissariat to any of the correspondents of the daily press; and, if so, by what authority had the issue taken place, and had it continued up to the latest returns furnished?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : There is, Sir, one point in the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) in which I have reason to express my cordial and entire concurrence. He has stated that the present Motion does not single out the Duke of Newcastle as one Member of the Cabinet for special and distinct condemnation, but that the whole of the Cabinet who are his colleagues at the present time are also with him responsible for those matters upon which his conduct appears to be
 1223 1224 1225 1226
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL then obtained leave to bring in two Bills—namely, a Bill to carry into effect a Treaty between Her Majesty and the United States; and the other a Bill to amend the Law relating to the Carriage of Passengers by Sea. o Thursday.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I rise, Sir, to propose, considering the present state of public affairs, to which I need not more particularly allude, and, under the circumstances of the House of Lords having adjourned till Thursday, that, consequently, no statement can be made by the head of the Government until that day, that this House should also adjourn until Thursday. Under these circumstances, I do hope that, if there is any public business on the paper, hon. Gentlemen will have the kindness to postpone anything likely to raise a discussion until that day; and I now move that the House at its rising do adjourn till Thursday. I had almost forgotten that there is a Bill which my right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Colonies is anxious to bring in, of great and pressing public importance, inasmuch as it has for its object to carry into effect the treaty lately concluded with the United States relative to the fisheries; the purport of which my right hon. Friend will explain at another
 1234 Thursday" agreed to.
 MR. COWPER said, that the Board of Admiralty, being very anxious to give effect to the desire that was so prevalent of forwarding packages to the Crimea, containing such comforts and luxuries as could not be procured in any other manner, had given instructions to the authorities at the dockyards at Deptford, Portsmouth, and Plymouth, to the effect that all packages directed to any officer or person engaged in Her Majesty's service in the Crimea or at Constantinople should be received, and, as occasion offered, that those packages should be placed on board such vessels as were employed for the conveyance of Government stores. A special bill of lading was to be made out for each package given by a private individual, and the package itself would be delivered to the senior naval officer at Balaklava, or at any other port in the East. At the same time, he must remind the hon. Gentleman that the power possessed by the Government of sending out such packages or parcels was limited by the number of ships they had under their control, and by the number they were able to hire. Renewed efforts would, however, be made for procuring fresh vessels. There was another limitation, which, however, was of a more serious character—namely, the size of the harbour at Balaklava, and the power of arranging those vessels when they did arrive at that place. In reference to Smyrna he had to inform the hon. Gentleman, that nothing had as yet been done upon the subject. When it became necessary, steps would be taken to place it in an efficient state for the reception of such packages. With regard to the appointment of Captain Heath, he could only say that Sir Edmund Lyons had full authority to make such arrangements as he thought necessary for the public service.
 MR. A. STAFFORD said, seeing the hon. Member for Hertfordshire (Mr. Cowper), a Lord of the Admiralty, in his place, he wished to ask him whether the Government had made any recent arrangements in reference to the delivery and consign-
 1261
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON said, he could not avoid expressing his regret that no statement had been made as to the prospect that might exist of any Government being formed to replace the one just resigned. In the present crisis of public affairs, and with the troops in the Crimea in that lamentable condition in which they were known to be, not only from the statements of eye-witnesses, but, also, upon the high official authority of one of the Cabinet Ministers who had lately resigned office, he trusted that it would be borne in mind that days, and almost hours, were of importance, and that in no quarter, from the highest downwards, would any feeling of past favour or aversion be allowed to interfere with the desire to procure for the country the best and most efficient Ministry to carry on the war to a successful issue. He rejoiced very much that the noble Lord the Home Secretary had only adjourned the House until to-morrow, and he confessed he wished that some other reason for that had been assigned than the perfectly satisfactory reason.  [Laughter.]
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Mr. Speaker, I rise to make, in the usual manner,
 1262 agreed to.
 MR. WALPOLE : Mr. Speaker, in seconding the Motion of the noble Lord, I do so in the heartiest desire to concur with him in every word which he has said; and also in the words used by you, Sir, in conveying the vote of thanks to the hon. and gallant officer whom we are so happy to see amongst us again. I feel, Sir, that I can add nothing more to what has been said than my cordial concurrence.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS : Mr. Speaker, I beg to assure you, Sir, and this House, that I appreciate most deeply the very high honour which has now been conferred upon me. I am quite aware, and deeply impressed with the conviction, that there is no honour to which a British Subject can look with more ardent desire or be more proud of than the recognition of his services, whatever they may be, by the
 1265 1266 1267
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I rise, Sir, to perform an office in respect to which I am satisfied I shall receive the unanimous and cheerful concurrence of this House. Sir, there is no function belonging to the individual who fills the Chair which you so worthily occupy that can be more agreeable or more honourable in its discharge than that which you have just performed —namely, the function of conveying the thanks of Parliament to men who have distinguished themselves by noble exploits in the field, and who have earned by a long career of military services the gratitude and admiration of their country; and I will venture to say that there never was a Speaker who had the opportunity of being more completely the faithful organ of the feelings and opinions, not only of this House, but of the nation at large, than it has been your good fortune to be on the present occasion. Sir, the eloquent and feeling in which you have conveyed to the hon. and gallant officer the thanks of this House ought to remain a perpetual record for the encouragement of others to pursue the same career as my hon. and gallant Friend has nobly followed, and for the satisfaction of those brave comrades in arms whom he has so ably headed on the field of battle. I beg, therefore, to move that the words spoken by Mr. Speaker, in conveying to Lieutenant General Sir De Lacy Evans the thanks of this House, together with so much of the observations which have fallen from the hon. and gallant Member as contains his expression of gratefulness for those thanks, be printed in the Votes of the House.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : My hon. and gallant Friend (Sir De Lacy Evans) adverted to topics not immediately connected with the occasion. The Motion I
 1268 Ordered, Nemine Contradicente "That what has been now said by Mr. Speaker in giving the Thanks of this House to Lieutenant General Sir De Lacy Evans, together with so much of his answer thereto as relates to such Thanks, be printed in the Votes of this day." Monday
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY : Sir, I am quite prepared to answer, and, I trust, satisfactorily, the question of the hon. Gentleman by reading, with the permission of the House, some extracts from letters which have been received from Admiral Lyons and from the captains of transports on the spot. The Board of Admiralty wrote to Sir Edmund Lyons, stating that the reports to which the hon. Gentleman has referred with respect to the harbour of Balaklava had been published in this country, and requesting a statement of the
 1271 "But to revert to the inside of the harbour, the responsibility for the first three weeks rests with me, for I had the superintendence, and all I will say of myself is, that I naturally did my best to promote the success of an object I had so much at heart; but of my assistants I may say that no man ever had a more able one than I had in Captain Mends, for the details of landing the cargoes, or a more efficient one than I had in Captain Heath, for all the duties relating to the ingress, berthing, and egress of the shipping. Thanks, in a great measure, to the zeal and foresight of Rear Admiral Stewart, boats were not wanting, and their Lordships may be assured that the best use was made of them by Captains Davies and Heath and Commander Powell, whose praiseworthy conduct has won for them the admiration of the army and the goodwill of all. I observe that it is alleged that quantities of hay and firewood were allowed to float about the harbour when both were in much request, and I freely admit it must have appeared so to passers by; but the truth is, the hay had become so saturated with salt water in the late hurricane that the animals would not eat the innermost part of the trusses. The wood was only fit for firewood, and it was considered that the best means of preventing its being pilfered was to let it float out of the reach of the strand until measures could be taken for collecting and distributing it." "With reference to your letter of the 18th ultimo, addressed to my predecessor, and to mine of the 13th instant, in reply thereto, I beg to transmit some documents which I have received from Captain Heath, of the  Sanspareil, "Balaklava Harbour, Jan. 13. "It is with much pleasure that, on the eve of your departure, we bear testimony to your unceasing endeavours to regulate the berthing and insure the safety of the ships in this harbour. We are, &c. [Signed by thirty-six masters of transports."] Colombo, "The gale threw everything into confusion; but, by great exertions, a rearrangement was effected, and since then the most watchful care of the shipping in all cases, which seemed to require interference, seems to me to have been afforded. The pilotage of the port, under Captain Powell, requiring the largest ships to be handled, under critical circumstances, has caused me repeatedly to express my most unqualified admira-
 1272
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I have been very anxious that there should be no necessity for any further statement on my part with respect to my resignation of the office which I lately had the high honour to hold, and I therefore refrained, in the debate on Monday night last, from replying in any way to the statements made by my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the
 1273 1274 "But I must, observe that at the formation of the Government no such office as tile War Department was contemplated; and when, subsequently, the Colonial Office was divided, no objection whatever was made to the choice of the War Department by the Duke; nor, as far as I am aware, up to this moment, to his management of the office." 1275 1276 1277 1278 1279 1280 "Lord Grey informed me that it was very desirable for his Government to have the advantage of Lord Derby's talents and services in a prominent situation in the Cabinet; and he proposed to me, in order to effect that object, to vacate the seals of the Colonial Department, and to accept the Privy Seal, which Lord Dur-
 1281 1282 1283
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the closing remarks of my noble Friend do not, I think, call for any observation on my part. I will only venture to say that I am quite certain it required no assurance from him to convey to our minds the most distinct conviction that, if there has been any incompleteness in any portion of a statement in which he, as a civilian, was charged with describing military operations of great importance, the very last motive to which that omission would be ascribed would be indifference on his part to the exertions of the army. With respect, Sir, to the observations which preceded that portion of my noble Friend's remarks—namely, the explanation he has given of the part which he has been called upon to take in transactions connected with the formation of a Govern-
 1284 1285 1286 1287 1288 "The noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), in his statement with reference to the course which he
 1289 See Hansard, 1290 1291
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I have received no communication from my noble Friend the Secretary of State upon that subject.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, in consequence of a message which I have received from my noble Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department, I wish to propose to the House that the Orders of the Day, with the exception of that relating to the Fisheries Bill, should be read, for the purpose of being postponed. My noble Friend has communicated to me that the same reasons which induced the House on Friday last to waive proceeding to the discussion of several measures are still in their full force; and, therefore, as I have stated, he desires me to propose that the Orders of the Day should be postponed. I beg to move that the House at its rising do adjourn till the usual time to-morrow.
 MR. DEEDES : Mr. Speaker, seeing the hon. and gallant Admiral who is a Member of the Board of Admiralty in his place, I beg to ask him a question of which I have not given notice. It having been stated not only by private channels of communication, but also in the public journals, that very great confusion and mismanagement existed at Balaklava among the shipping, and that no arrangements were made for the landing of the cargoes when the ships arrived there, I wish to ask the hon. and gallant Admiral whether any information has been received by the Admiralty on the subject, and whether the case is as stated; and, if so, whether any and what steps have been taken to put an end to such a state of things?
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON : Mr. Speaker, may I ask the right hon. Gentleman whether the statement he has just made is intended to express to the House that no progress whatever has been made in the formation of a Government, and that we are as far off as ever we were from the prospect of a stable Administration?
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he must express his surprise that no announcement had been given of any progress having been made towards terminating that state of Ministerial interregnum which was affecting so seriously the interests of the country, and presenting such a melancholy spectacle of the defects of our much-vaunted representative system to the eyes of the world. While the explanations and counter-explanations and the intricacies of reasoning to which they had been listening were going on, he could not help fancying what the feelings of our army in the Crimea must be, suffering, as we all knew it
 1292
 MR. BENTINCK : I do not know, Sir, whether the course which I am about to take is in accordance with the custom, or will be in accordance with the wishes, of this House, but I think, at least, my justification may be found in the very anomalous, and, I may add, the very disastrous state of public affairs at the present moment. For it is impossible, I think, to imagine a state of things more disastrous than the present, both for the prospects and the character of the country. It is now more than a week since a Vote of this House compelled the resignation of the Ministry upon the ground of their inadequacy for the duties which devolved upon them—that incompetency having been admitted even by portions of the Ministry itself. Now, I would ask, what has occurred during the time that has elapsed since the Vote that compelled the resignation of office by the late Government—time, every hour of which is invaluable, and upon the proper distribution of which may depend the lives of thousands of our countrymen in the East? If we are rightly informed—I am speaking, of course, from public rumour, but when we have nothing else but public rumour to guide us, I believe that is a sufficient ground on which to offer a few remarks to the House—if, I say, we are rightly informed, we know that in the first instance the Earl of Derby was commissioned by Her Majesty to form a Ministry. It is rumoured that the Earl of Derby made the attempt, and that he applied in the first instance to the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department. That noble Lord is stated, in the first instance, to have assented to the arrangements proposed to him; but the noble Lord is stated subsequently, and very shortly afterwards, to have declined those arrangements to which he originally assented. The noble Lord will doubtless be able at the proper time to explain to the House and to the country a course of conduct which, if correctly reported, savours somewhat of vacillation. We hear it further stated that Lord Derby, upon learning the disinclination of the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department to join him, found it impossible to form a Government with which he could hope to obtain the confidence of a majority of this House. He therefore
 1297 1298
 MR. BENTINCK ; Sir, I have only one word now to say, and that is, that, after what has fallen from the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir G. Grey), I do not wish to press the matter further upon the
 1309
 MR. F. SCOTT : Sir, when the right hon. Baronet the President of the Board of Control refers to precedent, he must allow me to say that the position in which this country stands at present is quite unprecedented. He has alluded to the want of experience of the hon. Member for West Norfolk; but my hon. Friend sat in this House during the years 1853 and
 1299 caput mortuum, 1300
 MR. STUART WORTLEY : Sir, I am not going to follow the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite through all the party politics he has submitted to the House. I rise on this occasion to look, not to party interests, but to the interests of the public, and to ask whether the continuance of this conversation at this time can be of any service to the country. I entirely agree with those who have expressed their deep regret at the position in which the country is placed at this moment. We all regret the period that has elapsed, and the difficulty that has occurred in giving a new Ministry to the country; but if there is any difficulty more than another that can be thrown in the way of the
 1307
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : Sir, I may appeal to the experience of the older Members of this House if the course which the hon. Gentleman has followed upon the present occasion is not altogether without precedent. The hon. Gentleman has expressed his decided opinion that the present state of the country is one that calls for explanation, and I have no doubt that when the proper time arrives for asking that explanation it will be given by those whose duty it may be to do so, and that, moreover, at the earliest possible moment. I apprehend, however, that in the present posture of public affairs, it is not fair to call upon the Members of the late Government, who are certainly not responsible for what has occurred, to explain the reasons why so much time has been consumed in the formation of an Administration. When the new Ministers, whoever they may be, take their places in this House, then will be the proper time to ask for explanations, and I think I may assure the hon. Gentleman that an opportunity will be given to him to repeat the statement which he has just made to the House.
 MR. MUNTZ said, he could not agree with the right hon. Gentleman, for he thought the House was already in a very humiliating situation, and the country too. What had they been doing here but wasting their time for several days past, pretending to govern the country, whilst the Gentlemen who were seated on the Treasury benches were no Government at all. The fact was that the country believed they were waiting for two or three aristocratic families to adjust their differences before they could form a Government. That was what the people were saying; and they were also beginning to say that it should not last much longer. They were inquiring, and they would soon know, whether there were not men enough to govern the country as well as it had been governed during the last thirty years, without entering the charmed circle of these aristocratic relationships. Hon. and right hon. Gentlemen might shut their eyes to these facts; but if they went into the world and heard the remarks that were everywhere made, they would soon be convinced that was the feeling of the people at this moment. They thought that time was wasted and that the existing state of things was injurious and disgraceful to the country; and if it continued much longer, it would end in the disgrace alike of the Government and that House too.
 MR. LABOUCHERE : I confess, Sir, that in the present posture of public affairs there is no consideration that bears so strongly on my mind as a desire that this House at least should, by its demeanour and conduct, hold that position in the estimation of the country which is of the utmost consequence at all times, but more especially at a moment like the present. I am far from saying that the time may not come when it may be the duty of this House in the most constitutional manner, by an Address to the Crown, to express its opinion that as speedy a termination as possible should be put to the present situation of affairs. But I am of opinion that the character of this House will not be raised, or that the termination of the negotiations which are now in progress will not be promoted in any degree, by a discursive discussion of this kind. If this House does interfere at all, let it do so with dignity, with effect, and upon due notice given. I do not say that, if the present situation of affairs is protracted even for a few days, it may not be our duty to interpose in a proper manner—and I address myself to Members on all sides without distinction—but in the meantime I do implore the House not, by listening to public rumours, or what appears in newspapers—not, by attempting to make speeches in favour of this or that set of candidates for office—not, by exhibiting a spectacle of this kind to the country, to take a course which would not promote to any extent any public object, but which, on the contrary, would have the effect of exhibiting this House in a discreditable and humiliating posture before the public at large. But the principal inducement I had to rise was to implore the House not to allow itself
 1301
 MR. WHITESIDE : Sir, the right hon. Baronet has entirely misunderstood the remarks of the hon. Member for West Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck). My hon. Friend did not venture to ask for an explanation of a thing which, I suppose, cannot be explained; but he addressed a few practical and sensible observations to the House, in the hope that the House might express an opinion which would be valuable in accelerating that which, if the House do not interpose, does not seem likely ever to approximate to a satisfactory termination. Perhaps, after all, the only thing possible to be done, as you have passed a Bill to import a foreign army, is to bring in a foreign Ministry also.
 MR. ROEBUCK : I rise, Sir, on this occasion on account of my having been particularly alluded to by the hon. and learned Member for Wallingford (Mr. Malins). Before I address myself to the matter personal to myself, I will make one observation with reference to what has fallen from him. The hon. and learned Gentleman complains that that party which constitutes very nearly a majority of this House has been excluded from the formation of a Government. That is, I think, a most incorrect way of stating the facts of the case, for that party have been called upon to form an Administration, and have confessed their inability to do so. That inability has been confessed by the hon. Gentleman the Member for West Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck), who says that they were called upon by their leader, and that he had since declared he had not been successful in his endeavour to construct a Cabinet. Therefore, it cannot be said to the House that to us belongs the blame of creating
 1308
 Mr. MALINS : Sir, I am very reluctant to interfere in the present discussion; but sitting here as an independent Member, caring for neither one party nor another, and having only the interests of my coun-
 1302 1303 en masse, 1304 1305 [Ironical cheers.] 1306
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, I have to state to the House that my noble Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department has received a Commission from Her Majesty to undertake the formation of a Government. Under these circumstances he has requested me to move that the House at its rising should adjourn till Thursday next, not thinking that it would be necessary for the House to meet tomorrow at twelve o'clock; but I have been informed since I came into the House that it would be attended with great inconvenience if the House were to adjourn over to-morrow. I understand that there is some business, not likely to occupy much
 1296
 COLONEL KNOX  said, that having been connected with the army for more than five-and-twenty years, he thought he might venture to say a word on the present occasion. He considered that the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Northamptonshire need offer no apology to the House for having brought under its notice the circumstances to which he had called its attention; and although the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer read them a lecture, having only a few minutes before told them that probably they must adjourn for ten days, he thought the circumstances needed no explanation. In a letter which he had just received from the Crimea there occurred the following words—
 "Can it be believed? The sickness in the camp is most dreadful. We bury a thousand a week, and, including all the reinforcements, the strength of the English army is not more than 11,000 men. Everything is mismanaged by the authorities here." 1323
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he could not as a soldier allow the discussion to close without saying a few words. He was certainly not disposed to receive any lecture from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Our army consisted of but 11,000 men, and not of 30,000, as had been stated by the right hon. Gentleman, and out of these 11,000 he believed only about 2,000 to be able to take the field. There were 6,000 men in the hospitals at Balaklava, and it was so impossible to get any assistance that only the most prompt and vigorous measures could put a stop to the disasters of our army. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer said that if they had any complaints to make they ought to apply to the Executive Government. He thought it most unreasonable that that course should be forced upon them. The Executive Government had been accused, tried, and found guilty of incompetence by an immense majority of the House of Commons within the last few days; and yet it was to these Gentlemen, incompetent for the performance of their duties, that they were expected to apply. When the Committee of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) came on, he hoped that free scope would be given to those persons who were acquainted with the state of the army. They wanted no generals from the Crimea as witnesses; they had abundance of evidence already in this country to show what was the state of the army. To say now that a new medical staff was to be organised, after the half of
 1324
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he must beg to explain that he had not included the naval auxiliary force. He had only mentioned the number of British soldiers under arms.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished to know whether any estimate had been taken for money to be laid out in quartering the militia in Ireland? The Government were still going on in the old expensive and extravagant system of billeting the militia, while it was known, and had been pointed out to them, that an enormous saving to the country could be effected by building houses for the men—a saving of not less than 10,000 l.
 Mr. A. STAFFORD  said, he wished to say a word in explanation. His right hon. Friend had said that he ought to have applied to the proper authorities; but he had thought—on seeing it announced in the Notice Paper that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War was to move certain Supplementary Estimates—he had thought he should see that right hon. Gentleman in his place, and that he would then be prepared to answer the interrogatories that might be put to him without notification on his (Mr. Stafford's) part. As far as the hospital accommodation went, he had never by any implication stated that the right hon. Gentleman who was recently Secretary at War, had not met the circumstances of the case as far as it was in his power to meet them. On the contrary, he knew that the right hon. Gentleman
 1321
 MR. A. STAFFORD  said, he did not rise to oppose Mr. Speaker leaving the chair, nor to raise any discussion upon the forms and usages of the House, which perhaps they had already discussed too much; and, if the statement that he had to make and the suggestion he had to press on the attention of the Government were of a nature that would admit of any delay, he would be the last person there who would offer any obstacle to the raising of the necessary means for carrying on the services of the country. But the question now before them could not be confined within the limits of the mere forms and usages of the House. Relating as it did to a Supplementary Ordnance Estimate to be proposed in Committee of Supply, it led them at once to the question of the state of our army. He therefore begged the attention of some Member of the Government to the statement he was about to make. He had received that morning a letter from Scutari, representing that the difficulties of the hospital there, instead of diminishing, were actually increasing. He (Mr. Stafford) could give the authority of the writer for a statement which would carry its own weight with it—namely, that, on an average, there were rather more than forty deaths occurring daily in that hospital, whereas when he (Mr. Stafford) was there the average was about half that number, and, further, that orders had come down from the Crimea directing the authorities of Scutari to prepare for the reception of 500 sick every week—that was, 500 independent of those who were sick and those who died at the camp. Now, coupled with these statements, there was an announcement made by a Gentleman whom he had never found to be wrong—substantially wrong—in the information he furnished—he meant the Gentleman who was engaged in the task (which he was sorry to see was about to terminate) of administering the  Times 1316
 MR. A. STAFFORD  said, he was not putting any questions to the Government, but wished to point out that this was a matter really depending on the next mail, and he besought the Government not to regard it as one of slight importance. If they did not confer on Dr. M'Grigor a signal mark of their approbation for the course he was pursuing in regard to the hospital service, they would do more to discourage the efforts of the younger surgeons, and more to perpetuate that system of routine which had proved fatal to hundreds and thousands of our soldiers, than they would do by any other step they could possibly adopt. He did not expect any Member of the Government to answer him on that occasion, because there was no one connected with the departments concerned then in his place; but as he (Mr. Stafford) might not have an opportunity of speaking to-morrow, and as the idea had been held out that the House might not meet until Friday week, he wished, in his place in Parliament, to appeal to whoever might be appointed to the highly responsible office of Secretary of State for the War Department and to point out to him that one thing which ought to be done without the least delay, and which would tend to the salvation of the army, or, at all events, to the alleviation of its distresses, was to bestow some signal mark of confidence upon Dr. M'Grigor. Having personally witnessed Dr. M'Grigor's labours by night and by day, and seen how sedulously he exerted himself to assist the ladies and the nurses when they first arrived, as well as how forward he was before all others to break through the trammels of routine when they obstructed the good working of the service, he could not refrain from expressing his conviction to the Government that unless they gave the countenance and encouragement he had indicated to that
 1317 Times
 Mr. A. STAFFORD : What is the proper department?
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the hon. Member must be aware that there was no Member of the Government then present to answer him.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he wished to point out that this was merely a Vote on account, and, a residue being left, there would, of course, be an opportunity on a future occasion for the fullest discussion with regard to it. No one, in fact, was bound by this Vote to the Estimate itself. The hon. Baronet the Member for Evesham (Sir H. Willoughby) was mistaken in thinking that this was a Vote to raise money from the people—it was merely to authorise the Government to apply money which had already been raised. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had certainly expressed an opinion that the money voted last year would be sufficient for the expenditure of the year, and he continued still to think that that money then raised would be sufficient to meet the expenditure up to the 5th of April. That, however, was quite a different thing from the Government taking power to apply money already raised to certain purposes. It turned out that the Ordnance expenditure had been greater than was anticipated, and it was therefore necessary for the Government to apply to the House for authority to expend money to meet the excess. The hon. Baronet (Sir H. Willoughby) said he thought the House had been taken by surprise. Why, the Estimate had been lying on the table of the House for more than a week, but the invariable practice was to give notice the night before that a Vote of Supply was to be taken. His right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had explained that this was simply a Vote on account. to meet the pressing demands on the public service, and, therefore, no more than the usual notice was required. Of course it would be open to any hon. Member to raise a discussion in Committee, but it would not be very convenient for any such discussion to take place upon a Vote on account. The first important public business which had to be transacted was the passing of the Navy Estimates; but, as his right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Admiralty was seriously ill, and as his noble Friend the First Lord of the Treasury could not attend the House for several days, the Navy Estimates could not well be proceeded with before Friday week, it being desirable that when they did come on for discussion both those Members of the Government should be present, as some important questions might possibly be raised.
 1315
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he fully concurred in the remarks which had fallen from the hon. Baronet, but he had a still stronger objection to the Vote than any which the hon. Baronet had stated. There were two exceedingly objectionable items in the Ord-
 1313 l. l. l.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that nothing had surprised him so much as the calmness and composure with which every Member of the Government had spoken of the state of things at present existing. At a time when the public mind was excited to the last degree by the disasters that were befalling our army day by day, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had his feelings perfectly under control, and could speak of a perishing army with a degree of tranquillity that was most astonishing. Last night, by accident, an hon. Member of that House came into a place where he (Mr. Whiteside) was, and gave him a description of the sufferings of our troops in those hospitals—sufferings which he had witnessed with his own eyes. That was the reason of his addressing the House on the present occasion. He did not think that any Member of the House was bound to apologise for venturing to open his lips there, or that they ought rather discreetly to visit a Secretary at War upon whom the censure of the House had fallen. He had heard an hon. Member of that House, whom he did not now see in his place, describe the wretchedness and horrors of that hospital at Scutari. He heard him say, that at one and the same time he saw sixty of the bodies of our unhappy soldiers stitched up and arranged ready to be carried out for burial. And he said he had heard from the lips of the unhappy men, taken in what are called transport ships to Scutari, that they rejoiced in being able to lie down on the deck of the vessel, in order that they might have the miserable satisfaction of dying where they could have rest. He (Mr. Whiteside) was persuaded there was nothing regular at Balaklava or at Scutari hut confusion. In that the Government shone. In that every department of the State had been pre-eminent. In that respect it had justly earned the censure of Parliament, and he must admire the principles of our Parliamentary constitution, which, after a Secretary at War had been, according to his own statement, formally censured for misconduct in the administration of the department confided to his care, placed him, by a shuffling of the cards, in another and a higher department of the Government.
 1322 bonâ fide;
 MR. WILSON  said, there was a notice before the House for a Supplementary Estimate for the Naval as well as the Ordnance Department, and that paper had been also referred to a Committee of Supply. It would be very desirable that a Vote should be taken on that Estimate as soon as possible, in order that it might go to the House in the same way as the Vote on account of the Ordnance. He therefore hoped the House would agree that to-morrow the orders should take precedence of the notices of Motion.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer in asking the House to go into Committee of Supply, had assured them that it was for the purpose of taking a Vote that was absolutely necessary to the public service. That being so, he thought nobody could refuse, on the part of the House, to grant to any Government that which was required to meet the exigencies of the public service, and for this purpose to go into Committee, as moved by the right hon. Gentleman. When in Committee it might be reasonable and proper to call the attention of such Members of the Government as were present in the House to the nature of the several items contained in the Vote, and to require explanation upon them. He also understood that the Chancellor of the Exchequer intended to report the Vote, if taken, tomorrow. He (Mr. Walpole) was glad that that was the intention of the right hon. Gentleman, because when the House broke up yesterday it was under the impression that no business was to be undertaken to-day, but that it. would meet on Thursday for purposes of necessary business. This being the impression, there were not now so many Members in the House as he should desire to give an opinion with regard to the question of adjourning until Friday week. It would be premature, therefore, to enter into the discussion of that question at this moment; but he would observe that it had occurred to his own mind, that in the absence of the noble Lord who was now at the head of the Government, it would not be advisable to enter into the consideration
 1314
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : My hon. Friend interrupts me by asking what is the proper department. That is not a question very difficult to answer. I apprehend that if my hon. Friend went to any department of the Government connected with the administration of the war, he would find every disposition to forward his inquiries; and I should say, if I am to give a suggestion to my hon. Friend, that his proper course would be to apply to the Minister who is charged with the superintendence of all those departments, namely, the Secretary of State for War. The other course, I think, is, to call to account the Members of the Government in this House; but my hon. Friend has not taken that course either, because he has made a statement in the absence of every Gentleman connected with the War Department, and without giving any notice to those who are connected with them, which would have enabled them to supply him with an answer. I would ask my hon. Friend whether he thinks it can be desirable for the public service, or can promote the purpose which he has so much at heart, that he should produce a statement of this kind, with the authority of a Member of this House in his place, fresh as he has received it from the Crimea, in the absence of the possibility of any satisfactory reply being made to him. I make that appeal to the good feeling of my hon. Friend himself. At the same time, although I have received no notice from my hon. Friend upon this subject, I beg leave to say that my own recollection enables me to repudiate the inferences that would too naturally be drawn from the statement of my hon. Friend if it remained without an answer. He speaks of the state of things with respect to the hospital at Scutari, and of demands for additional accommodation there. Well, was my hon. Friend to infer that no provision had been made by the proper department of the Government? [Mr. A. STAFFORD: Certainly not.] I am not in a condition to state fully that provision; but what I want to point out to my hon. Friend is, the mischief of making statements in this House from which, if they stand alone, such inferences would be drawn as should not only wound the feelings of the country, but would not correspond to facts, and consequently greatly prejudice the public service. But by the kind indulgence of the House, and
 1319 1320
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I trust that, after the statement which my hon. Friend has considered it his duty to make, after, by the favour of the House, I had last the opportunity of replying, the House will extend their indulgence to me, and, without pretending that I rise to explain anything that I said before, will permit me to refer to what has fallen from my hon. Friend. I must remind my hon. Friend and the House that these times of great difficulty—times when feelings are deeply moved—are also the times when it is most necessary for the public service that both this House and individual Members of this House should observe that discretion in their proceedings by which those proceedings are made to operate for the advantage of the country. My hon. Friend says that he feels it his duty in his place in Parliament to refer to that which seems to him of material importance—to questions so greatly interesting and so important as those involved in the condition of the army.—[Mr. A. STAFFORD: And so urgent.] And so urgent. I entirely agree with my hon. Friend; but he must allow me to say that there are two modes of proceeding, either of which he might wisely have followed, according to his own discretion, but neither of which he has adopted upon the present occasion. One is, upon receiving statements of the kind which have reached him from Scutari, to carry them to the proper department of the Government.—[Mr. A. STAFFORD: There is no department.] The other is, to call to account the Members of the Government in this House, in case the subject-matter to which those statements refer has been neglected. Now, I apprehend that as my hon. Friend received the statements in question only this morning, he has not carried them to the proper department of the Government.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I propose to move that you do now leave the Chair, for the purpose of going into Committee of Supply, in order that I may then ask the Committee to give a Vote on account, being part of the Supplementary Estimate for the Ordnance Department, of which my right hon. Friend, who has now accepted the office of one of Her Majesty's principal Secretaries of State, gave notice yesterday. I presume the Government are of opinion that it would be the wish of the House that we should not proceed with any business, except such as is of absolute necessity, in order that those who have accepted office, or who have changed their offices, in Her Majesty's Government—at least, the principal members of it—may have an opportunity of submitting themselves to their constituents for their re-election. It would, perhaps, be inconvenient to proceed to important business in the absence of these Gentlemen. At the same time, as far as the Government is concerned, it would be perfectly convenient for them to go on with those Bills which already stand upon the Votes of this House; and if the expression of opinion should make it evident that such is the wish of the House, we shall be prepared to do so; but, estimating as well as we can what may be the probable wish of the House, we apprehend that it would not be thought convenient to proceed in that manner, and consequently the intention of the Government is to propose that the first important public business to be taken up in this
 1310 1311
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the matter to which the hon. and gallant Colonel referred was no doubt one very well deserving of consideration, but it was in no way whatever connected with the Vote before the Committee.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  it said, he was anxious not to detain the Committee, but the hon. Baronet had asked him two distinct questions, to which he hoped he might be permitted to reply. He had been asked first, whether there was to be any further supplementary estimate for the war; and secondly, whether he was prepared to justify the expectations he held out to the House in the month of August last, or to excuse himself for not having fulfilled those expectations? He begged leave to observe, that on all occasions when he had adverted to the expenses to be incurred in the war, he had declined the responsibility of giving any assurance to the House. He had stated that the House was entitled to the best calculations and conjectures he could make; but as to making assurances with reference to expenditure in time of war, that was a responsibility which he would under no circumstances assume. But, in the present case, he would venture to say this much, that he was sure no supplementary estimates would be required for the year 1854–5. With respect to the second ques-
 1326 l., l. l., l.,
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that, in agreeing to the Vote on account, no hon. Member would stand committed when the discussion occurred on the proposal that the House should vote the residue.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he thought the House was rather taken by surprise by this Vote. It was not only a very large sum, but the noble Lord the Member for the City of London had distinctly stated that the Navy Estimates would be taken first. And then it was rather too much to move a grant for the Ordnance department when the Secretary at War was not in his place. The House last year was led into some great error or miscalculation by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, for they had now to provide for 3,340,000 l. l.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he could not do otherwise than characterise the proceeding of the right hon. Gentleman as exceedingly irregular. The House was, in fact, completely taken by surprise, because the very first intimation of the proposed Vote appeared in that day's paper, in the name of Mr. Secretary at War, and that right hon. Gentleman was no longer a Member of the House. With such a notice as that, therefore, he put it to the House and the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair, whether it was competent for the House to go into Committee of Supply then, and vote what he anticipated would
 1312 l., l.; l. l.; l.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he rose, not for the purpose of prolonging the debate, but for the purpose of correcting some of the misstatements that had fallen from the hon. and gallant Member for Portarlington (Col. Dunne), and others. It had been stated by the hon. and gallant Member for Marlow (Col. Knox), that the deaths in the army amounted to so large a number as 1,000 per week. The amount of sickness prevalent in the army was certainly very great; but he could assure the hon. and gallant Member that that statement was altogether incorrect. He (Sir W. Molesworth) had carefully examined the official returns from the army, and he could assure the hon. and gallant Member that his statement was essentially wrong. It had been asserted that the Government had misrepresented the facts; but the Government were perfectly prepared to substantiate by official returns that the statements they made were accurate. The hon. and gallant Member for Portarlington had confused the number of men under arms with the total number of men in the army. The total number of men of all ranks in the army in the Crimea and fit for service, including men under arms, cavalry, artillery, engineers, and the naval auxiliary force, was not less than 30,000, according to the last official returns. As Her Majesty's Government had resigned, he hoped this debate would not be continued, because the responsible Ministers who could answer these questions were absent, and it was impossible for those who were not acquainted with the specific details to reply to them completely.
 MR. BECKETT  said, he thought the South Western Company had forfeited all claim to confidence, not only by failing to undertake the construction of the line for which they had obtained powers in 1848, and applying the money subscribed to other purposes, but by refusing to redeem the pledge given by the hon. Member for Berwickshire (Mr. F. Scott), in consequence of which the scheme supported by
 1372
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that it was a vote for money to be expended.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought he need hardly acquaint the hon. Member that, in making that statement, he was acting upon Returns which were not under his own control, but which had been furnished him by the military departments, and he would rather not give any answer with respect to the production of those Returns until the Members of the Government more particularly interested had bad time to consider the question which plainly involved matters of great consequence. The hon. Member was, however, entirely mistaken in the expression that he had attributed to him, and had represented him as having said that there were 28,200 men under arms. That was not the expression he had used. What he had really said was that there
 1375 1376
 MR. COWPER  said, he had to ask for a vote not exceeding 1,615,600 l. l., l.
 MR. VERNON HARCOURT  said, that one of his nearest and dearest relations was with the army before Sebastopol, and therefore he felt a deep interest in what was taking place there. He thought he should be neglecting his duty if he did not state that the private letters he had received were of a very different complexion from those to which the hon. and learned Member for Weymouth had alluded. He admitted that his letters contained many statements of hardships, of pain, and of suffering, of occasional bad weather, although not nearly so bad as had often been described, but their language throughout was that not only of hope, but of confident expectation. There was no desponding. Many of the statements they saw were certainly not borne out by many of the letters they received.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, after what had been stated so well by his noble Friend (Lord John Russell) with respect to the explanation of the apparent discrepancy between the statement he had made and the account contained in the public journals, he should have felt that it was almost unnecessary for him to address a single word to the House, if it had not been for the imputation which had been thrown out by the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. H. Baillie). His noble Friend had pointed out the difference in the mode of estimating the forces of an army, which would really account for nearly the whole of the apparent discrepancy between those statements. Not only in the statement referred to were the officers excluded, and all the forces except the infantry excluded, but a considerable portion of the rank and file themselves were excluded, because, in every army, a large portion of the rank and file were perpetually employed from day to day in duties, not military duties, which portion was not included in that statement. But he desired more particularly to contradict the observation of the hon. Member for
 1389 1390
 MR. DUNDAS  said, he had but lately returned from the Crimea, and he could state from personal observation that there was no feeling of despondency amongst the soldiers of the British army. In a note which he had received in December from an aide-de-camp in the Second Division, it was stated that out of four battalions there were only 1,200 rank and file, fit for duty, the nominal amount on paper being 2,714. These 2,714 were in existence, but were not at that time available for the trenches or for action, many of them having been sent to Scutari, and others having come home. But notwithstanding this, he did not take quite so desponding a view as some hon. Gentlemen were disposed to do, although he admitted that matters were very bad. When he was in the Crimea he saw that the men suffered very much from exposure, from cold, and from want of proper clothing; but he had left in the latter part of December, and since then large supplies of clothing had arrived at the camp. One of the greatest difficulties with which the men had to contend was the want of fuel, without which they could not cook their provisions; and when he was at Malta he had observed with great pleasure that a public company—he believed Price's Patent Candle Company—had devised a scheme and submitted it to the Secretary at War, by which six pounds of composition would be sufficient to keep a tent warm. The men for want of fuel, had frequently been obliged to eat their rations raw: and a man who had nothing to eat but a slice or two of raw pork could not be expected to do any work. He
 1391
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, that as he had been Chairman of the company at the time when the transaction referred to took place, he might be expected to have some feeling in the matter; but he could assure the House that he had none other but that which he trusted every Gentleman present had—that of morality, truth, and propriety. Being still a shareholder in the company, his bias would naturally be in favour of the Bill now before the House, which was a very important one, but, as the Motion before the House was one for its postponement, and not for its rejection, he would not oppose it, thinking that, as the half-
 1374
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, he did not know whether the right hon. Gentleman was about to give any promise for a future day, but for his part he did most earnestly deprecate the repetition of statements of this kind on the benches of that House. Those statements were not only read and heard in that House and in the country, but they were read and heard elsewhere also. Hon. Gentlemen ought therefore to feel the very deep responsibility that was laid upon them as Members of that House. For his part he could not understand that patriotism which indulged itself in repeating what he believed to be exaggerated statements of the weakness of our forces before Sebastopol. He could not understand what good it was to serve. Was it supposed by any man that what the noble Lord the Member for the City of London described as the "horrible and heart-rending" sufferings of the army were subjects upon which any Government could be indifferent, or that the existing wants of the army were not ever present to the
 1382 1383
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, he must beg to explain that he had not in-
 1388
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I do not wonder, Sir, that my right hon. and learned Friend (Mr. S. Wortley) wishes to deprecate a discussion of this kind, but at the same time there is one statement which has been so commonly put forth, that I am not surprised that hon. Gentlemen opposite ask for some explanation, and that they are surprised that there should be a discrepancy between what is ordinarily circulated as the state of the army and the official account which they hear from the Ministers of the Crown. The statement usually put forward fixes the number of men before Sebastopol at about 12,000 or 14,000, and it is generally understood that 54,000 have been sent out. It is then asked, how is it possible that, having sent out 54,000, you have now only 12,000 remaining, and how comes it that so enormous a number as 40,000 or 42,000 men have been lost to the army. Now the House ought to be informed that this is not a fair comparison. If you take 54,000 on the one side as the number sent out, you ought not to take 12,000 as the number remaining in the Crimea. The 54,000 men sent out includes all the cavalry and all the artillery; it includes every commissioned and every non-commissioned officer; it includes every man present under arms, every one employed as an orderly, upon hospital duty, or in any way whatever. Hence, when you have taken away all the artillery and all the cavalry, all officers whether commissioned or non-commissioned, and all men employed in various other duties not strictly military, you will then get at a fair number with which to compare the amount of men now spoken of as actually under arms in the Crimea. If you add all these men—all those officers, commissioned and
 1385 1386 1387
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I rise to move for leave to bring in a Bill on the
 1379
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he deeply regretted that in the present state of public affairs any Motion should be proposed to the House such as the Motion of which the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had given notice—namely, that the House should adjourn till Friday, the 16th instant. He was very well aware that those Gentlemen opposite felt very uncomfortable in their seats, and wished for time for re-election, and repentance he hoped. He did not think this country would submit to such an indiscreet postponement under the existing circumstances in which they were placed. He thought they ought all to offer their thanks to the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) for the inquiry he had promised to bring forward, and of the result of which there could be no doubt whatever. He wished the Government had a little more consideration for the brave soldiers and sailors composing our army than they appeared to have. He had last night, to his deep regret, seen upon the Treasury bench smiles that he thought most unbecoming, unfeeling, and indecent; and had not the House been in the state in which it was, he should have risen in his place and directed its attention to the subject. Now, when every hour was of importance, all the House had to look to was a shabby Ministry in a state of disgrace, who, he regretted to say, had not been finally excluded from office. He had, he hoped, the feelings of a soldier; and with such feelings he begged to ask in what state our army now was? Do let them know what was to be done—do let them be up and stirring; this sort of disgraceful apathy had already lasted far too long, and ought to be put a stop to. They
 1380
 MR. HUTCHINS  said, he did not see that any good would be done by postponing the Bill. He had always spoken in the strongest terms of the transaction which had been referred to, and he was not now about to defend it, but he must remind the House that persons standing very high in this country had voted in favour of it. An ex-Chancellor and two or three of the Judges had sent their proxies in favour of the repudiation. This Bill, however, referred to an entirely different matter, and he certainly thought the House ought not to refuse to proceed with it.
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he wished to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to a statement made by him yesterday, and which had had the effect of considerably cheering the people out of doors. The right hon. Gentleman was reported to have said that at the time to which he referred, the effective force before Sebastopol, including, of course, as was understood, the naval force serving on shore, amounted in round numbers to 30,000 men. This statement had also been repeated by the right hon. Baronet the President of the Board of Works. Now, that statement had created considerable surprise in the minds of many who had friends in the Crimea, with whom they correspond. His attention had been drawn to it from the fact of having seen letters addressed to other gentlemen, and one received by himself, which did not agree with such a statement. The letter he had received came from a gentleman high in rank, capable of forming an opinion, and one whose statement might be relied on, and agreed with that read from day to day in the  Times 1381 Times
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he had put no question, but had merely pointed out to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer that he should give an explanation of the fact he had stated.
 MR. G. BUTT  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, the right hon. and learned Gentleman opposite had thought it right to volunteer a lecture to an hon. Member on his (Mr. Baillie's) side of the House. Yet the right hon. and learned Gentleman's lecture ought rather to have been directed to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as it was in consequence of a voluntary statement made by that right hon. Gentleman that all this questioning arose. He could very well understand the inconvenience of a Minister making statements and giving information on such subjects—he could very well understand the right hon. Gentleman saying, when questioned, that he ought not to answer the question, as it would be inconvenient to the public service; but the right hon. Gentleman had done no such thing. The right hon. Gentleman had in his speech made a voluntary statement the other night, and another voluntary statement had been made by another Minister—the right hon. Baronet the First Commissioner of Works last night. But when those voluntary statements turned out to be quite different to the private accounts—for he himself had read a statement describing matters to be far worse than those represented by the Ministers—then he thought hon. Members had a right to ask on what grounds those statements had been made; and he thought it would be well if the right hon. Gentle-
 1384
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the question before the House was one of very considerable importance. There were, he believed, no doubt about the facts of the case:—A railway company induced a Committee of that House to throw out a Bill proposed by another railway company (which, if passed, would have supplied the wants of the inhabitants of a large district), upon the authority of a general meeting that they would undertake to make this line. The Committee considered that the line proposed would, from the representations of men in high office, be of great public benefit. The Committee, however, rejected a Bill which they would have adopted, with a view of passing a Bill which the South Western Company promised to bring in. That company afterwards repudiated their own acts, for another meeting was called which disavowed the proceedings of the former meeting, in consequence of which the directors at once resigned. The company repudiated engagements, and acted against the commonest principles of honesty. He believed the House would give a useful lesson to railway companies by refusing to read on the present occasion the Bill a second time. The adjournment for a month would give the present directors of the South Western Company time to consider the course they ought to pursue. He (Mr. Labouchere should vote for the Amendment; and, in doing so, he need scarcely say that he was totally unconnected with the companies of both districts.
 MR. RICH  begged to assure the House that in asking the question in the early part of the evening which had been so frequently alluded to in the course of this conversation, he had not had the slightest intention to impugn the statement that had been made by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. His only object in asking that question was to afford to the right hon. Gentleman an opportunity of stating the facts as they really were. There was undoubtedly a very great discrepancy between the two calculations—that which described the forces in the Crimea as amounting to some 12,000 or 14,000 men, and that which estimated them as amounting to as large a number as 28,000; nor, to speak the truth, could he altogether understand how the discrepancies could be reconciled even by such explanations as the noble Lord the Member for the City of London had just submitted. However, that was a matter for the House to determine. It was greatly to be desired that there should be laid upon the table of the House such official returns as would enable the country to understand how the case really stood. There was no use in concealing the facts. No good purpose could possibly be served by concealment; on the contrary, he believed that a true statement of the facts as they really were would best conduce to our interests. He believed that it was desirable that the truth should be known to England, to France, and even to Russia. He was not, one of those who had any misgiving as to the ultimate success of the campaign. He did not believe that there was any reason for despondency as to the eventual result, but he thought it of the highest importance that there should be such an official statement of our position as would enable the country to comprehend the true state of our case.
 MR. RICH  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether he was prepared to lay on the table a copy of the official document on which he founded a statement which was most satisfactory to the public—namely, that the latest official reports received from the Crimea at the time when he addressed the House, enabled him to assert that there were under arms 28,200 men, independently of the naval brigade and the marines, and exclusive of all the men in hospital at Balaklava or elsewhere. If the right hon. Gentleman would furnish that statement, he would afford great satisfaction both to that House and to the country.
 MR. JAMES M'GREGOR,  said, he would wish to point out that the present position of the House with regard to this company was to be attributed to its injudicious, ill-considered system of railway legislation.
 MR. JAMES MACGREGOR  said that every vote which the Government had proposed for the carrying on of the war had passed unquestioned.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he could see very considerable advantage to be derived from the postponement of the Bill. The breach of faith on the part of the company was not denied, and that the House should now enter into dealings with this company without taking notice of such a transaction was a thing not to be thought of. The hon. and learned Member for Whitehaven had given a very excellent reason for postponement. He wished to afford the offending company, which, it appeared, was to have a meeting within the month, an opportunity of seeing what the House of Commons felt with regard to the gross breach of faith which had been committed by them—to give them a  locus penitentiœ,
 MR. HILDYARD  said, it was his intention to move that the Bill be postponed for a month. This was not a mere squabble between railway companies; the question involved was one which concerned that House, and before he had finished his observations he should appeal to the House to say whether it was so or not. It happened that the district which, in the West of England, had Exeter as its apex, and Salisbury and Dorchester as its base, was at this moment less supplied with railway accommodation than any other portion of the kingdom, whether regarding its local or national requirements. But this was not the fault of Parliament. In the year 1848 Parliament sanctioned the construction of a railway by a local company, assisted by the company whose Bill was now before the House, and the latter company was authorised to raise a considerable sum of money towards carrying the under
 1369 1370 1371
 MR. CHAPLIN  said, as the mover of the second reading of the Bill now under consideration, he would beg to state that he was not chairman of the South Western Company when the transactions referred to took place in 1853. He had no doubt that his predecessor was authorised to give a pledge to the Committee; but when the time came for fulfilling it the shareholders thought they would not be justified, under the adverse circumstances which then existed, in adhering to the promise which they had given. But he would like to know how an error or a wrong committed in 1853 was to be rectified in 1855, when the Bill before the House referred to a different matter altogether? Moreover, the feeling which prevailed among the shareholders in 1853 was five times stronger in 1855, and for his own part he despaired of effecting any change in favour of the scheme proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Whitehaven (Mr. Hildyard). He should not give any promise on the subject, because he did not mean to commit himself; but he thought it hard that a railway company should be censured at one time for constructing new lines and branches, and at another for refusing to plunge headlong into works of the same description. The present Bill was merely a Bill for the better regulation of the traffic of the company, and he hoped hon. Members would not feel themselves justified in refusing to read it a second time.
 MR. CHAPLIN  said, that as the feeling of the House was so strong, he should not oppose the Motion for postponement.
 MR. DEEDES  said, he would vote for the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Whitehaven, on public grounds. In the year 1848 he had had the honour of presiding over a Committee of that House before which this question was brought, and which spent fifty-seven days in endeavouring to ascertain what would most completely satisfy the wants of the part of the country affected, and the interests of the public service. The decision of that Committee was that certain things undertaken to be done by the South Western Railway Company would best attain that end, and on that account their plan was preferred to that of the Great Western Railway Company. The result, however, of that fifty-seven days' inquiry was that not a single thing was done which the
 1373
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that he had been that morning informed by letters received from Plymouth, that a company of Sappers and Miners, lately embarked there on board the Princess Alice, had been so embarked in a state of mutiny, caused by starvation, because the authorities would not allow them to eat anything inside the victualling-yard, although they were detained many hours before their embarkation. He had received a letter from a gentleman of the highest position in Plymouth, stating that he had inquired into the facts of this case, and found that the men reached Plymouth by an early train, and were marched to the victualling-yard in order to embark, but that they did not do so until a late hour of the day, and during the delay which thus occurred they had no food until the circumstance became known in the town, when, through the kindness of Mr. Harris, a respectable
 1377 l.; l.; l.; l.; l.; l. l. l. 1378
 COLONEL DUNNE : Sir, seeing the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board in his place, I beg to ask whether it is the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill to put a stop to the revolting cruelties practised in the deportation of paupers long resident in England to Ireland?
 COLONEL DUNNE : I beg to give notice that if the Government do not act immediately, and without waiting for an inquiry, I will myself bring in a Bill to effect the object in view.
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY : Sir, no one can regret more than I myself do the necessity the hon. and learned Gentleman feels in putting this question. No one can regret more than I myself do that my old and gallant Friend, Sir Charles Napier, should have been so highly indiscreet as to have made the speech which he has been report-
 1393
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER said, he was very sorry there was any misunderstanding between the hon. Gentleman and himself respecting the question he had put yesterday. What he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) intended to state was, that all the payments that had been made by the Ordnance Department up to the present moment had been made out of grants which had already received the sanction of Parliament. That, he believed, was strictly and literally true. He now understood the hon. Gentleman to ask him whether any obligations had been contracted by the Ordnance Department, to the fulfilment of which the vote granted yesterday would be applicable. He had no doubt that the necessities of the service had compelled the Ordnance Department, upon their own responsibility, subject to the sanction of the Treasury, to contract obligations to which the Vote of yesterday would be applicable.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER said, his hon. Friend the Secretary of the Treasury had put himself at the disposal of the House with reference to this matter. The casual error of the printer, of course, gave any hon. Gentleman a right to object to going into Committee of Supply at that time, and he should not think of forcing such a measure by the vote of a majority. It was true that only a single stage could be taken that day, but it was material that that preliminary stage should be taken. The hon. Baronet (Sir H. Willoughby) would remember that two days ago a Vote was taken for the Ordnance Department. Upon that Vote, and the Vote taken yesterday for the Navy, a Ways and Means Bill would be founded. Now, the great object in taking the proposed Vote for the Civil Service that day was, that it would enable his hon. Friend the Secretary of the Treasury to include the whole three Votes in the same Ways and Means Bill; and he might remind the hon. Baronet that he would have, in Committee on the Ways and Means Bill, precisely the same opportunity of discussing the details of the Votes as he would have in Committee of Supply.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, there stands upon the notice paper for to-day a question put yesterday by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Richmond (Mr. Rich) with respect to a statement made by me in a speech in this House, and although the hon. Gentleman is not now in his place, it may perhaps be convenient that I should give an answer to
 1397
 COLONEL DUNNE thought it would be most dangerous to expose the positions and numbers of our forces to the enemy; but the fault lay with the Government itself, in mentioning the number of effective troops before Sebastopol.
 MR. A. STAFFORD said, he did not oppose the House going into Committee of
 1396 l.
 MR. CRAUFURD said, he regretted the necessity under which he felt himself placed in putting a question to the Senior Naval Lord of the Admiralty, whom he then saw present. The question was one of extreme importance, and related to the statements which had recently been made at a public dinner by the late Commander in Chief of the Baltic fleet. He wished, therefore, to inquire whether it was true that the Board of Admiralty had censured or dismissed Sir Charles Napier? what instructions were given to that gallant admiral respecting the performance of his duties in the Baltic? and whether such instructions had fettered him in any way in carrying out his operations there?
 MR. WILSON said, he would now beg to move the following Resolution—
 "That towards making good the Supply granted to Her Majesty for the deficiency in the Grants for the Service of the year ending the 31st day of March, 1855, the sum of 2,000,000 l.
 MR. WILSON said, he intended to have proposed that the House should go into Committee of Supply to-day on a Supplemental Estimate for the Civil Services. The Estimate was laid on the table yesterday at an early hour, and it ought to have been printed and in the hands of hon. Members within a short time afterwards; but he was sorry to say that, in consequence of some mistake on the part of the printer, it had not yet come down to the House. He was not disposed, unless the House should wish it, to proceed with the Votes in the absence of the printed documents; but he might just state what the different items were. The first was a sum of 120,400 l., l. l. 1395 l.
 MR. BAINES : Sir, with reference to the question put by the hon. and gallant Gentleman, I beg to remind him that, towards the latter part of last Session, a
 1392
 MR. W. WILLIAMS said, he put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Exchequer yesterday which he was afraid the right hon. Gentleman misunderstood. He asked him whether the sum which the House had just voted for warm clothing and other comforts for the army in the Crimea had already been expended, and whether the money was required for the payment of articles already furnished to the troops. He understood the right hon. Gentleman to state, in reply, that the amount just voted was for the purpose of supplying the army with the articles mentioned; but in that he must surely have misapprehended the statement of the right
 1394 l.
 Mr. W. WILLIAMS said, the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman was perfectly satisfactory.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS said, he thought that to propose going into Committee of Supply now was a deviation from the ordinary practice of the House; but in the present state of affairs they should not adhere too strictly to forms. They must, however, on this occasion trust the Government, hoping they would apply the public money beneficially and economically, as far as circumstances would permit, for the public service.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY said, that, unless there was an absolute necessity for going into Committee of Supply to-day, he hoped the House would defer it till after the adjournment. It appeared to him that 120,000 l.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL said, that if the donation were prompted by a feeling of commiseration for the person's poverty and distress, it would not come within the meaning of the Act.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL said, he would endeavour to give the best answer in his power to the question of the hon. and gallant Member. He should be very sorry if there was anything in the Act of Parliament referred to against the exercise of charity, generosity, and kindness; and if the hon. and gallant Gentleman dispensed his bounty indiscriminately to all, without showing any preference to voters or persons who could influence the elections in his borough, and did not time it with reference to his return so as to give it the character of corruption or undue influence, he need not be afraid if, in the career of his charity, he should bestow it on individuals who happened to be voters. The Act of Parliament was only directed against things that were done corruptly, and certainly was never intended to operate against those done in a  bonâ fide
 MR. H. T. LIDDELL said, that every Member of that House must admire the gallantry displayed by our troops in the East—a gallantry which had never been surpassed in the history of this or of any other country; but they must at the same time feel that they had but too much reason to complain of that mismanagement which had reduced those troops to so deplorable a condition, which had produced the disgraceful confusion of the harbour of Balaklava, the want of communication between that place and the camp, and the consequent deficiency in the supplies of clothing and of the very necessaries of life to the troops, although at a distance of only six miles from them there was abundance of all these things. These proceedings had suspended our operations in the Crimea, and rendered useless all the resources of this great country. They could not fail to remember that it was to our gallant allies our soldiers had been indebted, in many instances, for clothing, for sustenance, and for the means of transport. It was the duty of that House to consider whether they would rescind the vote which they had come to by so large a majority, in favour of the appointment of the Committee for which the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield had moved. It might be very well for hon. Gentlemen who had voted on that subject for a double purpose to attempt to explain away their vote; but he confessed that for his part he had voted for the Motion, not merely for the purpose of casting a censure on the Government, but also with a view to satisfy the just and natural anxiety of the country
 1454 1455 sauce qui peut, 1456
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR said, he did not think the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) had made a very satisfactory statement to the House. He had looked to the advent of the noble Lord to office as to the commencement of a vigorous era in the administration of the war, but from the statement which had been made that evening he could see no prospect of any efficient change in the course which had hitherto been adopted; he could only see small improvements that ought to have been long ago carried into effect. Having the highest opinion of the noble Lord, he deeply regretted to see him surrounded by so many Members of the former Administration. When hon. Members saw the Gentlemen who now surrounded him, their thoughts naturally turned to the sad spectacle in which not our army alone, but the system of Government in this country had suffered so much. He had hoped that the noble Lord would have infused a little new blood into the high commands of the army; but when they saw an octogenarian general appointed Commander in Chief in Ireland, and the admiral who had mismanaged matters so much at Constantinople sent to arrange affairs at Balaklava, he must say he felt no little disappointment. They were told they should have an energetic man, who understood the country in which the army was engaged, in the new post to be created under the Minister of War; but that announcement had been annulled for some extraordinary reason, and a Gentleman (Mr. F. Peel) was put into the office—no doubt a man of great respectability, but at the same time one who had the reputation of being very much attached to official routine. He regretted that the appointment, as Under Secretary at War, of his hon. Friend the Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Layard) had been so unaccountably cancelled. From the beginning of the war his hon. Friend had given the Ministers the benefit of his great knowledge of the countries in which we are at present engaged in war, derived from official and private experience, and certainly on every point on which he had given an opinion he had
 1464 1465
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY said, he wished to ask the hon. Member who had last
 1466
 MR. COWPER said, he thought the complaints of both the hon. Gentlemen who had just spoken with regard to the lists of officers were unfounded. The Admiralty had adopted a system of regulations under which officers who were too far advanced in years to be capable of active exertion were placed on the retired list; while, on the other hand, officers now reached their flag at an age while they were in full vigour. As regarded the patronage of the navy, he must deny, in the strongest manner, that promotions were now made on account of private interest, and not with a view to the public service. Being individually unconcerned in the matter, he could bear witness to the fact that his right hon. Friend at the head of the Admiralty was not in any degree liable to such a charge; that in all the promotions which he had made he had selected those officers whose promotion would in his opinion be best for the public service, without reference to any personal, political, or private considerations. After the Government had adopted the plan universally recommended of selecting the younger officers in preference to the older ones, it was natural for the latter to complain that they had been passed over for personal or political reasons; but he repeated that there was no foundation whatever for such a supposition. His hon. and gallant Friend (Captain Scobell) complained that too large a number of naval cadets had been appointed. There again he was entirely mistaken, for the number was not sufficient. As to his hon. and
 1487 Prince, Prince Prince
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY said, that the subject just alluded to by the hon. Member was under the consideration of the Admiralty. A good deal had been said about the stowage of the unfortunate ship the  Prince. 1488
 SIR JAMES GBAHAM said, he had no difficulty in answering the hon. and learned Gentleman's question. On more than one occasion within the last six months the attention of the Commander in Chief in the Black Sea was drawn to the state of Odessa, and in the event of its being accessible by naval means an opinion
 1491
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR said, he was surprised to hear that only twenty gunboats and five batteries were required for the Baltic and the Black Sea, especially when he considered the large number of similar vessels which Russia had at her disposal, and remembering that almost every Russian historian, while commenting upon the war between Sweden and Russia last century, dwelt upon the service and importance which gun-boats were in the contest. It was by means of these same gun-boats, he was informed by merchants in the City, that Russia was now enabled on the Danube to intercept the harvest of the last three years. Now, only imagine the importance it would be to us, as tending to reduce the cost of provisioning the army in the Crimea, if, instead of blockading the mouth of the river with a large flotilla, we had a sufficiency of small gun-boats to attack the enemy in his strongholds. He hoped, then, the statement of the right hon. Baronet was only a  ruse
 CAPTAIN DUNCOMBE said, he wished to know what were the circumstances under which the sum of 10,000 l.
 MR. STAFFORD said, that having visited the naval hospital at Therapia, he had the greatest pleasure in bearing his testimony to the efficient state of the hospital and the excellence of the arrangements, which certainly reflected credit on all concerned. He would also take that opportunity of calling attention to the difficulties attending the debarkation of the sick troops on their arrival in this country, which lie understood had not been met in all instances as they ought to have been. He trusted that the Admiralty would devise some means by which the invalids could be disembarked at once and sent on to their destination without being kept on shipboard, which, he believed, had been attended in some instances with fatal results.
 MR. STAFFORD said, the barracks at Smyrna were in good condition, and as they were situated close to the seashore, if they were applied to the purposes of a hospital, the difficulty of disembarking the sick and wounded, and conveying them to the hospital—a difficulty which was experienced at Scutari and Constantinople in consequence of the distance of the hospitals from the shore—would be avoided.
 ADMIRAL BERKERLEY said, that the
 1498
 COLONEL KNOX said, it was well known that the department over which the right hon. Baronet so ably presided had sent out from this country a very large transport service; but what became of them when they went out? It was well known that many of the sailing transports were lying idle at Balaklava, when the wants of the army required their services, and when they required animals, the possession of which would have enabled them to get up their shot and shell to the scene of action. He trusted, however, that the right hon. Baronet would be able, by the means which he proposed to adopt, to make this department really efficient, and he begged to thank him for the statement he had made.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, the right hon. Baronet had informed them that he had constituted a transport service board. His own opinion was, that single management was generally more advantageous, being more economical and efficient than the management of a board; and he did not see anything in this service to make it an exception. He wished to ask, however, whether in the event of peace, the right hon. Baronet had taken any measure to secure that the functions of this board should cease?—or was it a board that would hang as a heavy dead weight on the country after the termination of the war.
 MR. STAFFORD said, he wished to know if he was to understand that the absolute control of the whole transport of soldiers rested with Sir Edmund Lyons?
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT said, that many naval officers who were capable of rendering service to their country, and who were anxious to do so, of whom he (Admiral Walcott) was one, had been placed on the half-pay list, and that it had been their calamity and misfortune that they had not been called into active service. agreed to; l., l., l.,
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : Sir, I am desirous of calling the attention of the First Lord of the Admiralty to Her Majesty's Order in Council of the 19th May, 1846, authorising the promotion of masters to the rank of commander for service of distinguished merit. In the late promotions for distinguished service I looked in vain for a promotion of this character, though I obtained, through the medium of a newspaper, the copy of a General Order issued by the late Commander
 1497
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT said, he had heard with much satisfaction the commendation of the hon. Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Layard) of the class of masters in the Navy. He was glad to see the Admiralty disposed to show them every consideration; as in 1847, by an Order in Council, they were rendered eligible to be promoted to the rank of Commander for distinguished services. He thought that a certain set of policemen for seamen should be established in each seaport.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : Sir, the observations which have been made in the progress of this debate relative to the conduct of the war, so nearly affect the army and the navy at this momentous crisis that I am induced to trespass for a brief space upon the indulgence of the House. Firstly, to say that I recollect with a sorrowful satisfaction that at its outset, and during its early progress, I lifted my voice in warning in this House, and observed that the country who embarks on war with another Power, underrating its resources and undervaluing its means for resistance, is, to a great extent, guilty of the disastrous consequences which may ensue. Do we not in each instance stand self-condemned? We early lost our vantage ground and influence when we suffered the Turkish squadron to be destroyed at Sinope almost beneath our guns. Procrastination and uncertain counsels followed us from the commencement. Why did not our fleet pass the Dardanelles and enter the Black Sea simultaneously with the invasion of the Principalities by the Russian army? Why did not our fleet raze Odessa to the ground—the granary of Sebastopol? Why was the expedition to the Crimea detained so long on the plague-stricken shore of Varna with all its attendant miseries? Why did we not overlook that isthmus, by means of which so many thousand troops were poured into Sebastopol? What utter ignorance of the internal strength of that fortress and its inexhaustible means for resistance to a siege! What delay in our supplies, in siege-trains, and all the appliances by which to conduct our operations to a successful issue! Battles are not fought without great loss, nor victories achieved but at a costly price even to the successful, and yet for the wounded and sick how imperfect was the provision made. Sir, I cannot find language sufficiently expressive by which to deplore the mismanagement, the improvidence, and the dilatoriness which have characterised the conduct of this war. Our resolutions slow and feeble—our counsels made at random, halting, trusting, as it were, to some fortunate chance or fortuitous interposition by which to stave off calamity, or bring us undeserved success—our ample resources tardily supplied—the sincerity of our professions compromised by the dubiousness of our acts—our reinforcements doled out in a manner unworthy of the nation, tantalising to its chiefs, and insufficiently maintained to a standard by which to render success hope-
 1468 1469
 MR. A. DUNCOMBE : I wish, Sir, to put a question to the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir J. Graham), as we are about to go into Committee of Supply to proceed with the Navy Estimates. The right hon. Baronet will be aware that the gallant Admiral lately returned from the command in the Baltic was installed in that command with the unusual ceremony of a public dinner at the Reform Club. The right hon. Baronet is also doubtless aware, that on a late occasion at the Mansion House the gallant Admiral in question (Sir Charles Napier) passed a very severe censure on the officers and men of his fleet, and added that he had received the most degrading and insulting letter ever written to an officer. Now I am aware that some of the statements made by the gallant Admiral have been contradicted by the hon. and gallant Member for Gloucester (Admiral Berkeley); but still it is due to the right hon. Baronet, to the service, and to the country, to know on which side the truth rests, as also to know what the result to the gallant Admiral will be in case the
 1470
 MR. KINNAIRD said, he begged to inquire whether Sir John Forbes had been appointed the head medical officer of the hospital at Balaklava? [Sir J. GRAHAM: No.] I am very glad to hear it.
 MR. KINNAIRD said, he wished to call the attention of the Admiralty to the fact that the  Harbinger
 MR. KINNAIRD said, the ship to which he referred was telegraphed as having arrived at Liverpool. When the communication was made to the Admiralty they said it was no business of theirs. A communication was then made to the Horse Guards, who sent it back to the Admiralty. What he complained of was, that from the want of unity of system our poor wounded soldiers were driven from pillar to post, because there was no competent authority to deal with them upon their arrival, he was, therefore, glad to hear that the attention of the Government had been called to the subject.
 LORD HOTHAM said, he wished to inquire whether the Government intended to take the whole of the Navy and Army Estimates; or whether they proposed to ask for a Vote of men and money, and limit themselves to these Votes? If it were the intention to limit the Votes to these points, he had not a word to say. But if the whole of the Army Estimates were to be gone into, he should say that in the absence of a most important document not yet laid before the House, it was impossible the remaining Votes could be discussed with justice to the service. The paper he alluded to was the Royal warrant issued by command of Her Majesty last year, consequent upon the Commission appointed to consider the state of promotion in the army. The Commission reported, and, though the Report was produced previous to the Christmas adjournment, it had not been printed. It was of great importance; and, therefore, he hoped Her Majesty's Government would limit their Vote at present to the points suggested.
 LORD LOVAINE was understood to object to the destruction of the town of Odessa, as being an unfortified place.
 LORD LOVAINE said, the hon. and learned Member was under a total misconception of what he had said on the occasion referred to; and he must say that because he had elsewhere pleaded in favour of a defenceless town, he did not expect to be met on the floor of the House of Commons, and be told that because the Russians had exercised acts of cruelty upon our troops, therefore we ought to have made reprisals upon the unoffending inhabitants of Odessa. agreed to; l. l., l., l., l., l., l., l., l., l.,
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT wished to know whether that most useful class of officers the boatswains received any special reward for lengthened services, and whether their widows were entitled to a pension; whether it was the practice of the Admiralty, in making purchases of machinery, to obtain what they required through the medium of public tender or by applying to the private establishments which had the largest number of skilled workmen, and could do the work in the shortest and most efficient manner; and also whether the Government did not think it would be highly beneficial to introduce private workmen into the dockyards with a view to the adoption of improvements?
 MR. LAYARD said, he was desirous of saying a few words on behalf of a deserving and meritorious class of men in the navy, who he thought had of late been somewhat ill-treated, and who had not been mentioned by the hon. and gallant Member for Bath—he alluded to the masters. The House was aware of the onerous duties of the masters in the navy, and, though in the Black Sea their services had not been so much required, in the Baltic the services of this class had been called forth in a very distinguished manner, and yet not a single promotion had been conferred upon them. One of the masters, Mr. Ball, had particularly distinguished himself, and had been mentioned in the despatches. He believed that the omission of this branch of the service had created considerable disappointment to that arm of the service. He trusted that the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. B. Osborne), in his ardent zeal for the improvement of the public service, would not overlook the claims of this very meritorious branch of it.
 MR. LAYARD said, that as gun-boats would, no doubt, be found necessary to be used in the Baltic Sea, it was important to know that they could be constructed at a small expense at Constantinople, where there was a large yard for the building of such boats. With regard to Odessa, it was an unpardonable oversight that the Government should have suffered that port to remain untouched. He had warned them of the importance of disabling that port. It was the great resource of Russia in supplying its army in the Crimea with food; for they had large stores and warehouses, in which immense quantities of grain were deposited. Odessa formed a central point, from which Russia could communicate with her southern dominions. Had Odessa been destroyed last year, it would have prevented Russia from keeping up so large an army in the Crimea, as she would not have had the means of supplying them with food. It had been said that Odessa was strongly fortified. When the  Tiger
 MR. LAYARD said, he had seen it stated that a hospital was to be established at Smyrna. Now, he wished to remind the Government that Smyrna was not a healthy place. The European inhabitants—the Franks—left Smyrna during the summer, and went to villages in the neighbourhood to seek a better climate. He would suggest that Rhodes might be a more preferable situation for a hospital.
 MR. LAYARD said, he had seen it stated that Dr. Lawson had been appointed to one of the hopitals—he believed to the hospital at Rhodes. He wished to know whether it was true, after what had passed in the Crimea, that Dr. Lawson was still placed in a highly responsible position? agreed to; l., l.
 MR. LAYARD hoped that, for the satisfaction of the country, the Government would state that some measures had been taken with respect to the improvement of the hospital at Balaklava.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I was under the impression that upon the present occasion it would not have been necessary for me to refer to the conduct of individuals condected with the transactions which preceded those in which the noble Lord has been engaged, but, as the noble Lord has introduced the name of a noble Friend of mine, I am sure the House will not think it unreasonable on my part if I make one or two remarks upon that part of the noble Lord's speech. It is true, as is well known, that when the Earl of Derby was honoured by the command of Her Majesty to attempt to form an Administration he was influenced by only one consideration, which was the expediency, at the present moment, of forming a strong Government in this country. Considering the emergency, the Earl of Derby was of opinion that the first duty of a states man, consulted by his Sovereign under such circumstances, was to advise Her that every effort should be made to form an Administration which should have the confidence of Parliament and the country. Sir, it was with that view that the Earl of Derby opened a communication with the noble Viscount, and I am sure that unintentionally on the part of that noble Lord he has, in my opinion, conveyed an impression to the House that may induce the House to misapprehend the motives of the Earl of Derby and the object that he attempted to accomplish. The House will bear in mind that this was not the first time, under similar circumstances, that Lord Derby had felt it his duty to open communications with the noble Lord upon the formation of an Administration for Her Majesty. Upon a previous occasion, at a time not far distant—namely, about three years ago—there had passed those communications between the noble Viscount and the Earl of Derby which convinced the Earl of Derby that between the noble Viscount and himself there was no difference of opinion upon all great subjects of policy which could prevent them from acting together to form that which they alike desired—a strong and efficient Government. Sir, the noble Viscount, on that previous occasion, said, with becoming frankness, that it was impossible for him alone to join any Cabinet that my noble Friend might form, and it is, per-
 1432 1433 1434 1435 1436 1437 1438 1439
 MR. SPEAKER acquainted the House, that he had received a Letter from Rear Admiral Sir Edmund Lyons, in answer to a Letter communicating the Thanks of the House of the 15th and 18th December last, relative to the operations of the Fleet in the Black Sea:—Letter read, as followeth—
 "Agamemnon, "Sir,—Having succeeded Vice Admiral Dundas in the Command of this Station, the honour has devolved upon me of communicating to Rear Admiral the Honourable Montagu Stopford, and to the several Captains, Officers, Seamen, and Marines in Her Majesty's Fleet in the Black Sea, the unanimous expression of the thanks and approbation of the House of Commons for the services rendered by them during the present War, and of communicating to them also the unanimous acknowledgments of the distinguished valour and conduct of those who have perished in the struggle, and the deep sympathy felt for their relatives and friends. 1419 "All are deeply impressed with the honour conferred upon them. All are encouraged in the performance of their duty to their Queen and country, and the Seamen and Marines more so, I believe, than on any former occasion, for the blessing of education enables them to appreciate, better than their predecessors, the thanks and approbation of Parliament. "I have the honour to be, "Sir, "With the highest respect and regard, "Your most obedient, humble Servant, "E. LYONS, "Rear Admiral and Commander in Chief. "To the Right Hon. Charles Shaw Lefevre, "Speaker of the House of Commons."
 MR. SPEAKER also acquainted the House, that he had received a Letter from Vice Admiral Sir Edmund Lyons, transmitting a Letter from Vice Admiral Bruat, in answer to the Thanks of the House of the 15th day of December last:—Letter read, as followeth—
 "Agamemnon, "30th January, 1855. "Sir,—I have the honour to transmit to you herewith a Letter which I have received from Vice Admiral Bruat, who has succeeded Admiral Hamelin in the command of the French Fleet, showing how highly the French Navy feel honoured and gratified by the Thanks of Parliament. "I have the honour to be, "Sir, "With much respect and regard, "Your most obedient, humble Servant, "E. LYONS, "Rear Admiral and Commander in Chief. "To the Right Honourable Charles Shaw Lefevre, "Speaker of the House of Commons. "V a u Montebello, "Veuillez agréer, Monsieur l'Amiral, l'assurance de ma haute considération. "Le Vice Amiral, Commandant en Chef l'Escadre de la Méditerranée, "BRUAT. "To Rear Admiral Sir Edmund Lyons, Bart., "G.C.B., Commander in Chief, &c. &c. &c."
 COLONEL SIBTHORP said, that he wished to ask the law officers of the Crown, whether, in consequence of the Act passed 10th August, 1854, c. 102,  anno decimo septimo et octavo Victoriœ Reginœ, 1420
 COLONEL SIBTHORP said, he also wished to ask whether, if a poor elector, being greatly distressed by sickness or accident, should be assisted by an occasional donation of a small sum of money from his representative, or a friend of his representative, such a proceeding would be deemed an infringement of the law?
 MR. E. BALL said, he should have expected that the noble Lord at the head of the Government, when he first came before the House in his new character, would have endeavoured to appreciate the good feeling of the public, and in giving expression to his intention to oppose that inquiry into the state of our army which a large majority of that House had sanctioned, would have advanced some very powerful reason for taking such a course. Great, therefore, had been his surprise when he had heard the speech of the noble Lord. The course which, in fact, the noble Lord proposed to take, was similar to that of a person, who, having been arraigned for certain crimes before a jury of his countrymen, should say, "I object to be tried by that jury, but I will appoint a jury of my own colleagues, whom I will make the judges of my conduct." In his opinion the country would not be satisfied with the step which the noble Viscount was desirous of taking, and he firmly believed would not give its consent to the abandonment, upon insufficient grounds, of a Resolution at which that House had formally and solemnly arrived. The public were anxious to know how it was, that an expedition which had been fitted out with so much cost had met with disasters so signal and so sad. For his own part he thought it would have been fortunate for this country if Ministers had been contented to direct their efforts to the increase of her naval pre-eminence, instead of sending out troops to make fresh conquests. But passing over that point, and taking into account the conduct of the Government with respect to the expedition that had been sent to Sebastopol, he must say that, in his opinion, it demanded a searching inquiry. Why, he would ask, in the first place, were our troops encamped at Varna, when it was well known what an unhealthy district it was, and where eventually the forces were decimated by disease, and how was it that we had sent out an army to Sebastopol at so late a period of the year without taking even common precautions for their comfort and safety? These were questions to which the people of England demanded that an answer should be given, and, therefore, it was that they would not
 1450
 MR. HORSMAN said, he concurred with the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield in thinking that there were two important subjects involved in the present question; first, the public interest as connected with the administration of the army, and next, the character of Parliament as affected by the prosecution of the inquiry. The Government that had met them that night had reappeared in a great crisis, and the responsibility that now lay upon the House was most serious. They might, if they pleased, visit the reproach for all their disasters upon the heads of the Government, but he believed that there were very few Members of the House of Commons who had not much to answer for in the past for the calamities which they were now deploring. At the commencement of that war the leader of the Opposition (Mr. Disraeli), speaking for his party, honourably declared that though they were the opponents of the Government, still the Ministry, in the prosecution of the struggle, should have their cordial and constant support as much as if they had the conduct of it themselves. This pledge, he was bound to say, had been most faithfully fulfilled. Indeed, if any mistake had been made by those who gave it, he thought it lay in the opposite direction. One of the securities for good government was, that if we had not a strong Administration, we should at least have a strong and vigorous Opposition; but during the last few months we had had neither a strong Government nor a strong Opposition; and this was the cause of many of the difficulties under which we now laboured. He must say that hon.
 1447 1448 1449
 MR. G. DUNDAS said, he thought great
 1495 Britannia,
 MR. MUNTZ said, that before he hailed with any degree of gratification the noble Lord's advent to power, he must have further proof of what his Administration was to be. He could not stultify himself by voting against a Resolution to-night which he had voted for only a few nights ago. When he supported the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield he thought it would be for the interest of the country that an inquiry should take place; and that, so far from its being prejudicial to the war, it would greatly advance it. He was still of that opinion. Indeed, if it were necessary to justify the vote he had given, he need only quote the speech which the noble Lord had that night delivered, for the noble Lord had admitted all that was complained of. What, he (Mr. Muntz) asked, would have been done if the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield had not moved for an inquiry, or if the House had so far betrayed its duty as to reject it? If that vote had not been carried, an end would not have been put to a most inefficient Ministry, and the people would have been delivered over to a set of men whose incompetency for rule had brought disaster on the country.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL said, that in rising to address the Committee on the important subject of the Navy Estimates, he could not abstain from expressing his regret at the absence of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume). The right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty had drawn the attention of the Committee to the merits of the marines. As marines no one could rate them more highly than he (Captain Scobell) did; but when the right hon. Baronet stated that they were accomplished sailors as well as soldiers, he begged to demur to that proposition. The marine never went aloft, and he could neither hand, reef, nor steer; but in their own duties they were well deserving the praises that were bestowed upon them. He thought the Government were wise in proposing to have six screw line-of-battle ships in the Black Sea. Last year there was really but one, the  Agamemnon, 1485 1486 Prince,
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL complained that the navy had no retirements of full pay under any circumstances, while in the army, and the marines there were retirements of full pay. In the army, too, there were constantly promotions on half-pay.
 MR. VANSITTART said, that in one portion of the speech of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) he held out some prospect not only of an honourable, but also of a speedy peace. He (Mr. Vansittart) sincerely trusted it might be the good fortune of the noble Lord to attain that object. He had heard with great satisfaction that an individual of such high character and ability as the noble Member for the City of London had been appointed to conduct the negotiations at Vienna on behalf of the British Government, for he thought that, if this opportuity of concluding a peace were lost, not only might the present war be one of long duration, but all the States of Europe might be involved in it. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in a late debate, had said, with reference to the sufferings of the troops in the Crimea, that he thought many hon. Members attributed to the mismanagement of the Government what were, in fact, only the necessary horrors of war. In consequence of the long peace, the people of this country were almost unacquainted with the horrors of war, but they were now enabled to form some conception of those horrors, and he believed there would be a strong feeling in favour of any Government which seemed likely to be able to conclude a lasting and an honourable peace.
 MR. H. HERBERT said, he wished to call the attention of the Committee to a speech which he had seen published in an Aberdeen newspaper, in which the speaker
 1493
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE said, he was exceedingly anxious to know whether any explanation could be offered of the extraordinary manner in which Odessa had been spared? He did not ask that question for the sake of embarrassing or censuring the Government, but a great deal of anxiety had been felt out of doors upon the point, and he thought Ministers ought to be obliged to him for giving them an opportunity of explaining it.
 MR. ROEBUCK said, that having been pointedly alluded to by several speakers in the debate, he felt himself called upon to explain the course he intended to adopt. The Committee for which he had moved a fortnight ago, and the nomination of which he intended to propose next Thursday, had already obtained the favourable decision of that House. The House had placed upon solemn record the declaration of its opinion that such a Committee ought to be appointed, and the only argument that the noble Lord at the head of the Government had ventured to allege for the rescinding of that Resolution was, that there was now in office a new Administration, animated with new intentions; but he (Mr. Roebuck) confessed that he was at a loss to understand the force of this argument, and was not altogether prepared to admit the fact. A fortnight ago, the House determined that the Administration then sitting was incapable and inefficient; that under its management the army had declined, if not disappeared; that disaster and calamity had befallen us in the Crimea; and that, in consequence, inquiry was necessary. Such was the decision at which the House of Commons had arrived; yet the noble Lord now came forward and asked them—as the right hon. Gentleman opposite truly observed—to "stultify" themselves by rescinding the Resolution, and by retiring from the vantage ground they occupied, so as to afford to the present Administration the fullest possible opportunity for doing that which the old Administration were confessedly and notoriously unable to do. The only reason that the noble Lord could urge to induce the House to adopt this course was, that there was a new Administration! But was the fact so? Was there a new Administration? He doubted it. The cards had doubtless been shuffled—it might
 1440 vis inertiœ 1441
 MR. HENLEY said, he saw two sums of 4,206,697 l. l.
 MR. HENLEY said, he objected to the suspicious wording of the Vote. He was afraid that as the estimate was worded, moneys which ought to have been paid in 1854–5 might pass through the Audit Office under cover of this Vote.
 MR. LAING said, he was induced to trouble the House because the Government and the House might not be aware of the feelings which induced some hon. Gentlemen on that (the Ministerial) side to vote in favour of the Committee proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield. He (Mr. Laing) did not give his vote in favour of appointing a Committee as a vote of censure, or a vote of want of confidence in the general policy of the late Government. On the contrary, he approved of the general policy of that Government, and of the reluctance to plunge into a war which had been manifested by the Earl of Aberdeen. He thought there was a certain degree of popular prejudice
 1457 1458 1459 1460
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE said, he trusted that his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Roebuck) would adhere to his Resolution; for sure he was that if his hon. and learned Friend did not, he would greatly disappoint the country. The noble Lord who appeared for the first time at the head of the Government had told them that he and the Government would be their Committee. Why the House had already condemned the noble Lord and his Friends as a Committee, and did not want to have anything to do with them. They would only spoil and stifle the inquiry. What the House
 1442 status quo ante 1443 1444 bonâ fide 1445 1446
 MR. PHINN said, he believed that the practical question before the House was how this nation, with its representative system, might infuse into the conduct of the war the same vigour and decision as despotic and arbitrary Governments exhi-
 1451 1452 1453
 MR. W. WILLIAMS said, he did not intend to oppose the Estimates which had been laid before the House by the right hon. Baronet, for ever since the commencement of the war he had always expressed his opinion that every facility should be afforded to the Government for successfully carrying it on, and for bringing it to a speedy and honourable termination. He wished, however, to make a few observations on what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet. The right hon. Baronet had referred to the number of men required to carry on the present war, as compared with the number required to carry on the last; but he did not think that there was any credit to be taken because the number required for the present war fell short of that required in the last. The duties of the navy were very slight now, compared with what was then the case. Now we had only to shut up the enemy's ships in two seas; then we had to protect our commerce and our colonies in every part of the globe. The right hon. Baronet had
 1483 l., l., 1484 s.
 MR. WILLIAMS  said, that the number of Admirals on the list was not diminished this year. On the contrary, it was greater by nine. Many of those officers, no doubt, had rendered services to their country, but a great many haul never rendered any service at all. In one instance a man bad been made an Admiral who never had been one hour at sea in his life.
 SIR GEORGE TYLER said, that in the course of last Session he had ventured to suggest to the First Lord of the Admiralty that bounties should be offered to induce able seamen to enter the navy—a measure which, he thought, would be productive of very beneficial results. The consequence of such bounties not being given, he regretted to say, had been that the Baltic fleet was anything but well manned. There was a very marked distinction between the naval and military services in this respect, which must, he thought, tend to excite disgust in the navy, unless it were allowed to participate in the advantages enjoyed by the sister service. The bounty given in the army averaged from 6 l. l. l. 1489
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM said, he always listened with respect to suggestions emanating from the hon. and gallant Member. As to the comparative pay of the army and navy, the remuneration of the sailor was, relatively, infinitely higher than that of the soldier. Whatever was given to the latter in the shape of bounty was reimbursed by hint in the form of stoppages of pay on his first employment; whereas the sailor, from the moment he entered the service, received a higher scale of pay, which was liable to no such stoppages or reduction. The hon. and gallant Member had been misinformed if he supposed that coastguardsmen serving as sailors drew pay both as coastguardsmen and as sailors. The real state of the case was, that the coastguardsman, when on board ship, was continued in the enjoyment of his coastguard pay, but he received nothing in his capacity as a sailor. Every disposition was evinced to allow the coastguard to return to service on shore, but the bargain made with them bound them to serve on board ship when required in time of war,
 1490
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM said, that abuses had crept in under the former system of granting pensions to the widows of these officers, and therefore an increase of pay had been allowed to the men in lieu of it. The practice of placing small deposits in savings banks was fostered by every means in the Admiralty's power. As to the manufacture of the machinery required for the service, the Admiralty found by experience that there were only six or eight firms in this country that could execute this description of work; and the system pursued, when new orders had to be given, was to issue private letters to each of those firms, informing them of the nature of the machinery that was demanded, and then to leave them to compete with each other for its construction.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM said, that since the commencement of the war Odessa had been strongly fortified.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM said, he fully appreciated the value of gun-boats, particularly in the Baltic, but at the same time he must remind the hon. Member, that modern experience taught a very different lesson to that preached by the Russian historian; for although last year Russia had a considerable number of gunboats at her command in the Baltic, none of them were ever able to get within gunshot of any of our ships. With regard to
 1492
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : If, Sir, it had been the pleasure of the House to go into Committee upon the Navy Estimates, it was certainly my intention, in the course of the few observations which it would be possible for me to address to the Committee, not to have passed altogether unnoticed the subject to which the hon. and gallant Member for the East Riding (Mr. A. Duncombe) has alluded. In any course which I may think it my duty to adopt, I shall certainly adhere to that which I think will be the most conducive to the public interest in an emergency like the present. To enter upon a complete analysis of the statement made by Sir Charles Napier would compel me to make disclosures of discussions which have taken place with that gallant officer in which the public interests are materially involved. It is impossible, consistently with my duty, to give that refutation to the statements of the gallant officer which it might be desirable for me to give without the production of correspondence and of despatches, interwoven with questions of naval preparations about to be resumed in the Baltic as soon as the weather will permit. It has certainly pleased that gallant officer to heap personally upon me much obloquy; it has been my duty to submit to the weight of that obloquy, such as it may be, rather than to endanger in the slightest degree the interests of the profession with which I have the honour to be connected. It is quite true that the gallant officer stated, on the occasion in question, that he was sent in command of the Baltic fleet with ships' companies, badly manned and worse disciplined. The Board with which I am connected used their utmost exertion in the selection of officers to command those ships endeavouring to choose those who were best entitled to the confidence of the profession. I have every reason to believe that the commanding officers of the different ships employed, without exception, did use their utmost diligence, with the greatest success, to introduce the best discipline into the vessels under their command. Sir Charles Napier certainly, in a despatch addressed to the Admiralty in the early part of his command, did make an assertion similar to that which on a
 1471 1472
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Mr. Bouverie, it is now my duty, and I can assure the Committee that I will perform it as briefly as possible, to bring under their notice the Navy Estimates. In doing so in the first instance, before we proceed to vote any sums for the charge of the navy in the year about to commence on the first of April next, it is my duty to put into your hands two Votes with reference to our past expenditure. The first of these Votes is for the sum of 79,000 l., l. 1473 l. l. 1474 l., l. l., l, l., l., l., l. l. l. l. l. l. 1475 1476 l., l., 1477 l., l. 1478 l. l. 1479 l. 1480 l. l. l. l., 1481 l. l., l. l. l., l. 1482 l.,
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : If the House will consent to go into Committee of Supply, so that the Navy Estimates may be brought forward, it is not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to propose this evening any Vote with reference to the army.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM said, the subject had been most carefully considered by the Government. During the cold months Smyrna was healthy, but about the month of April, he believed, it was frequently visited by dangerous fevers. It would not, therefore, be prudent to erect a permanent establishment there, by which considerable expense would be incurred, and the Government had every reason to believe that Mitylene or Rhodes might perhaps be preferable situations for a hospital.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM said, that the Admiralty had no power of taking any steps with regard to these invalids on their arrival in port, except on communication from the medical authorities. The noble Lord, however, at the head of the Government, in his statement that evening, had intimated that the whole subject of the medical authorities and their connection with the Secretary of War was now under consideration.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM said, he begged to express his great satisfaction at the testimony which the hon. Member had borne to the efficient state of the hospital at Therapia. The credit due must be attributed in a great measure to the excellent arrangements of Sir William Burnett, who had charge of this department. With regard to the debarkation of the sick troops, arrangements had been made for keeping open one ward at Haslar Hospital for their reception.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM said, he was glad the hon. and gallant Member had asked this question, as it gave him an opportunity of doing justice to a gallant Admiral on a distant station, who, in a most unassuming manner, but, at the same time, with great boldness of execution, had secured a very important advantage for this country. He alluded to Sir James Stirling, the admiral commanding on the China station, who, availing himself of an opportunity which offered, had visited Japan, where he was received in the most friendly manner, and had negotiated a treaty with the Government of the Emperor of Japan. whereby he had secured for Her Majesty's vessels the right of entry
 1494 agreed to; l., l., l.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : said, he would consider before the Report was brought up, whether any alteration could be made in the terms of the Vote, so as to meet the objection of the right hon. Gentleman. agreed to. Monday
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM said, that the words used in the Vote were those which had been used from time immemorial, and that the Vote of 4,206,697 l. 1502
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM said, he felt it his duty, in moving this particular Vote, which was to a very large amount, to make a short statement to the Committee bearing upon a matter adverted to by his noble Friend at the head of the Government in the early part of the evening. It had been his (Sir J. Graham's) duty, when at the head of the Admiralty in 1832, to abolish several subordinate boards, and among others the Transport Board. In making the arrangement which he then submitted to Parliament, he had foreseen that upon the recurrence of war it would not be possible for the victualling department and the duties of the transport board to remain united. Indeed, he had always contemplated the necessity of a subdivision, and the experience of the last nine months had convinced him that what he considered possible in a time of peace was in a time of war impracticable. He had, therefore, before the resignation of Lord Aberdeen's Government, made from the Admiralty a distinct proposition to the Treasury to reconstitute the transport board to exist only during the war, and upon a scale modest certainly as appeared by the amount of the Estimate. He proposed appointing to that board a chairman, two directors, and a secretary. He had thought it necessary that a service having under its control so large a sum as 4,000,000 l. l. 1499 1500
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM was understood to say that the responsibility lay with Sir Edmund Lyons in the last resort.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM said, he was much obliged to his right hon. Friend for asking this question, and enabling him to give an explanation. On principle he entirely agreed with the right hon. Gentleman. He was not generally in favour of the constitution of boards, and he thought that individual responsibility, properly superintended by a superior authority, constituted the best rule in the service, and upon that rule the whole of the subordinate departments of the Admiralty were based. He had stated, however, to the Committee the peculiarity of this department. Instead of contracts being entered into for an enormous amount, virtually binding the Executive Government, on the part of a single officer, involving temptations to improvident bargains—to use the mildest term—the best security for the public was that there should be more than one party to such transactions. Therefore, considering this an exceptional case, he adhered to the opinion that more than one
 1501
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM said, that when Sir Edmund Lyons was entrusted with the supreme command in the Black Sea, it was thought desirable that the sole and exclusive control over every branch of the naval and transport service should be exercised by him as the naval Commander in Chief. He was informed that he had the complete command over every branch of the naval service in that sea; that it would be necessary the work should be done; and that he would have the choice of the officers he might employ, and, when dissatisfied with their services, the power of removing them. At the same time he was informed that the Government would look to him for the satisfactory discharge of all the duties that required to be done.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON said, he wished to put a question to the First Lord of the Treasury, of which he had given him notice. He desired to ask him whether he could allow him (Sir J. Pakington) a day for bringing forward the Motion on
 1421
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON said, that having formed part of the numerous majority which turned the late Government out of office, he felt bound to take an early opportunity of expressing his disagreement
 1461 1462 Democracy in America, 1463
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON said, he should feel great pleasure in affording the right hon. Gentleman every facility consistent with the claims of other important public business for introducing his Motion. Tuesday week appeared to be a convenient day for such a purpose; but perhaps, before fixing a day, the right hon. Gentleman would allow him hereafter to communicate with him on the subject.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : In rising, Sir, to move that you do now leave the Chair, I feel it is generally expected that a person who fills for the first time the situation I have the honour to hold, especially under circumstances such as those which preceded my appointment, should state very shortly to the House what led to his holding the office he holds. Sir, that which I have to state will be very brief—brief because it has been anticipated by statements which have been made by a noble Lord in another place and by a statement subsequently made by a noble Friend of mine in this House. It has been already stated, and correctly stated, by the Earl of Derby, that when he was commanded by Her Majesty to endeavour to form a Government, he did me the honour to come to me and to propose to me that I
 1422 1423 1424 1425 1426 1427 1428 1429 1430 1431
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON said, that the Commission which he had mentioned at an early period of the evening, whose duty it would be to investigate and improve the sanitary arrangements of all the hospitals, would proceed to Balaklava as well as to Scutari.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that at one time barges merely carried water and provisions to the ships in dock, but as trade extended, although ships still came into dock for greater safety, the wharfingers by offering greater inducements, got all the landing and warehousing of the goods. He could mention one wharf from which 40,000 barges went into dock in the course of last year. Under these circumstances, was it to be held that the companies were to have nothing for keeping the docks in repair? The question was, would they protect the barge owners, lightermen, and wharfingers, at the expense of the dock owners? He should give his support to the second reading, thinking that the question in dispute could be best decided by a Committee.
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  said, that in begging to put four questions to the right hon. Baronet the President of the Board of Control, which stood in his name on the paper, he must observe, with respect to the last, that great dissatisfaction had been expressed at the lateness of the Session when the Indian Budget was brought on. He would now ask whether Mr. Marshman, the editor of the  Friend of India,
 MR. H. T. LIDDELL  said, he begged on behalf of his hon. colleague (Mr. Horsfall) to ask the First Lord of the Treasury whether instructions had been sent, or were intended to be sent, to Her Majesty's Superintendent of Trade in China, to cancel the bonds taken on British trade at Shanghai between the 9th of February and the 12th of July, 1854; whether instructions had been given, or were intended to be given, to Her Majesty's Superintendent of Trade in China, to interdict the interference of the consular courts in China, in reference to all the bonds and securities taken on British trade since the expulsion of the Imperial Customs' authorities from Shanghai by the insurgents in 1853; whether, when disputes of a pecuniary nature, and involving questions of international law, arose between British subjects and the Chinese authorities, it was intended that such disputes and questions should be decided by the British authorities in China, or referred home to be decided by the Supreme Government; and, whether Her Majesty's Government had taken, or intend to take, any measures to enforce upon the Imperial Government of China an equality and uniformity of practice in the levying and collection of the Customs' duties at all the ports in China open to foreign trade, in accordance with treaty stipulations; or whether it be intended to forbid all consular interference in the collection of the
 1513
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he was not in the least surprised at the general feelings of indignation which prevailed out of doors as to the state of our army in the East after the manner in which it had been spoken of by the noble Lord the Member for the City of London and the lamentable accounts which reached this country through other channels. He thought, too, it was greatly to the credit of the country
 1531 1532 1533 1534
 MR. BENTINCK  said, it was not his intention to trouble the Committee with any details of a purely professional character; that task he would leave to military Gentlemen. He simply rose to remind the Committee how frequently they had been told of the enormous expense attendant upon the maintenance of the army. But when he recurred to the Estimates moved this time last year, and coupled it with the state of that army at present, he must say no man could help feeling surprised at the enormous sum of money expended on starving it. However, that surprise would be very considerably increased when it was recollected that that result had occurred under the auspices of a Government which was declared by its supporters to embody the ablest administration of the country. Still it was to be hoped, now that the Government had been re-constructed—or, as his right hon. Friend the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) termed it, "re-burnished"—that the House would not be called upon when it met next year to deliberate upon a state of things so sug
 1566
 COLONEL KNOX  said, he sincerely believed that it was the hon. Member for Lambeth himself, and his class, such as his (Mr. Williams's) Friend the Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), not now present, who, by the course they had pursued, had brought the country to its present necessity. ["Hear, hear!"] Yes, he maintained that those Gentlemen had impaired the efficiency of the army; and then up got the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Williams), and delivered a speech which was nothing more than a tirade against the army, and a tirade against Prince Albert, because he was in command of the Grenadier Guards. Now, he (Colonel Knox) was inclined to think that when an hon. Member got up to criticise the condition of the army he ought first to have learned his lesson. He could, however, inform the hon. Member for Lambeth that in his comments he was most grossly mistaken. Why, what did the hon. Gentleman mean by telling the Committee that while ordinary colonels of regiments only received 1,100 l. l. l. l. 1567 l 1568
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he rose to say a few words in defence of an absent Member. The hon. and gallant Member who had just sat down (Colonel Knox) said that the state of the army was, in a great mea-
 1569 1570
 MR. PERCY  said, he must complain of the deductions made in the soldier's pay for the expense of his clothing and other comforts, in time of war, and thought that if this system went on, between the noble Lord the Secretary for War and the Under Secretary the firm would soon be known by the appellation of Moses and Son. At Scutari he had been told by the medical men connected with the hospital there that there prevailed a deplorable want of proper clothing for the sick and wounded, and
 1574 Acorn 1575 malades ordinaires.
 MR. PIGOTT  said, he wished to know whether the Government intended to keep up the corps of pensioners that went out with the army in the East, and the efficiency of which had been greatly questioned?
 COLONEL KNOX  said, he would suggest that, if a man should enlist for five years, and if at the end of that time he were in good health, it should be competent to him to enlist for another term of three years. But if one man enlisted for one year, another for two years, and a third for three years, there would be endless confusion in keeping the accounts of the army. He also gave notice that he should take the earliest opportunity to ask the Secretary at War a question, arising from the frequent complaints which had been made relative to the transmission of money from soldiers serving in the army in the East to their families at home.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that when returns were ordered by that House, the usual practice on the part of public departments was to give exact answers to exact questions, but when he moved for a return of the coffee roasted and ground which had been sent to the army in the East, the return professed to give the quantity roasted "or" ground. It, however, now appeared that no coffee roasted "and" ground had been sent to the army in the Crimea previous to the 22nd of December. He also moved at the same time for the date of the departure of the ships containing the coffee, but the Treasury did not give that information, alleging that they could not obtain it, and the ships might be at that moment frozen up in the docks for anything they knew. The soldiers never had the means of getting fires when they wanted to roast their coffee, and they had only the fragments of Russian shells to grind it with, when the Messrs.
 1597
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he wished to call attention to the fact that the Messrs. Collier, in their letter to the Treasury, offered to assist in roasting and grinding the coffee in any of the Government dockyards. He thought that Sir Charles Trevelyan, in his reply, might at least have thanked them for the offer.
 COLONEL BOLDERO  said, he could state to the Committee that the coffee was issued in a green state, that the only means of grinding it were the fragments of shells which had burst in the camp, and that, repeatedly, there was no fuel to roast it. He wished to know whether it was true or not that 30,000 barrels of porter had been sent to Constantinople, but, there being no one there to receive it, the ship had been detained and the owners were now prosecuting an action against the Government for the delay? He wished also to know whether it was true that the whole medical profession in front of Sebastopol had, one morning, resigned their commissions to Lord Raglan?
 COLONEL BOLDERO  said, he wished to bring under the notice of the Committee one point connected with the medical department. He found that officers in the navy who had been wounded had, when brought home, asylums open for them, such as the hospitals at Portsmouth and Plymouth, where they received every attention, and had the benefit of all the surgical skill which their cases required. Now, with respect to the army, he was not aware that there was for the officers brought home wounded from the Crimea any receptacle, where they could be received and attended to free of expense. Now, he thought, this was a very great hardship upon the officers in the army, though the alteration made in the deduction of from tenpence to twopence from the pay of the soldiers upon entering an hospital must be regarded as a very satisfactory change. He happened to know a case, which he would state to the Committee as it had been related to him. It was the case of an officer who was wounded in the Crimea by a  ricochet 1559 s 1560 1561 l. 1562 prestige 1563
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he had strong reasons for not departing from the usual practice in the case of private Bills. He was anxious that no injustice should be done to the promoters of a private Bill; and he was also desirous that the time of the House should not be taken up by discussion which ought more properly to take place before a Committee. The dock companies proposed to repeal certain clauses in their original Acts. It was alleged on behalf of the commerce of the port of London—and he thought there was some reason in what they said—that such a repeal would inflict great injury on the trade of the country. The companies contended again that their circumstances to-day were quite different to what they were when the clause it was now proposed to repeal was enacted. He did not wish, however, to enter into the question, and he hoped the House would not go into it either. It was a question assuredly for the decision of a Committee; and he trusted the House would have confidence enough in the justice, integrity, and impartiality of a Committee to confide to them the settlement of the matter. On these grounds he should vote for the second reading.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, the principle of the Bill was diametrically opposed to agreements which had been made with Parliament, and he should, therefore, oppose it.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he begged to be allowed to call attention to one point of great consequence — that of the tents. He believed a large number of the tents furnished to the troops for use during the present campaign were old tents that had been used in the Peninsular war, and that it had been truly remarked of them, that they might as well sit under a sieve. In fact, a great part of the misery endured by our men was owing to the insufficient protection they had against the weather. For this purpose the arrangements adopted in the French service were admirable, the troops being provided with small tents, which the men could carry about with them. He had received a letter from Colonel Ellers Napier, who took a great interest in these matters, which acquainted him that a tent had been transmitted to him, divided into six parts or more, of so light a nature as to be carried by a man on foot, which was capable of holding six persons, and was the invention of a private soldier, as he had been informed by General Bosquet was also the case with the tent used by the French. If we entered upon a summer campaign, we might expect great suffering again to be experienced by our army: and he must again urge the adoption of a better mode of covering the troops, especially that a better description of hospital marquees should be chosen. It was remarkable that, during the gale of the 14th November, when every one of our tents was blown down, not a single Turkish tent had been. Another point he wished to allude to was the enlistment of the new proposed corps of cavalry. Government always appeared to do the right thing at the wrong time, and in the wrong place. They were now about to send English officers to raise cavalry in Thessaly, but they might as well send them to Iceland, or any other quarter. If they wanted an excellent and efficient corps of irregular cavalry, they ought to send to Asia Minor, where it would be easy to
 1576
 MR. LAYARD : Sir, I trust the House will grant me its kind indulgence while I make a few remarks upon the present aspect of public affairs. Under ordinary circumstances I would not have made such an appeal, but I hope the House will, with its usual kindness, extend to me the indulgence I ask, bearing in mind the deep interest which I have taken in the question which now agitates the country, and my conviction that the present is a most momentous crisis. It was not my intention to raise a debate this evening, but rather to avail myself of the opportunity which would have been offered when the House was called upon to nominate the Committee moved for by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, but I have heard that it is not impossible that some arrangement may be made between my hon. and learned Friend and the Government which will preclude the House from discussing any question that might otherwise have reasonably been brought before it on that occasion. Feeling as I do that the country would not be satisfied if, at a moment like this, an opportunity were not given, at least, to some Members of the
 1515 l 1516 1517 1518 1519 1520 1521 1522 1523 1524 "We have had that war to wage by the instrumentality of an army which is one of the finest and noblest that ever left the shores of England—
 1525 "By which it has been crippled to a fearful extent, and has had to undergo privations and hardships which have been borne with a heroism almost unexampled, but which may be and must be attributed to causes that require searching investigation, in order that the proper remedy may be applied, and that the blame, if blame there be, should fall upon the right shoulders. This inquiry it behoves the Government to lose no time in instituting." "It has been the fashion, perhaps too indiscriminately, to heap blame upon the heads of those who are themselves engaged in carrying on the operations in the Crimea; and I say to those who may think that this is deserved, that there are others besides those who have been engaged in those operations—that there are others besides those whose business it is to minister to the wants of our army who are to blame for these transactions. It is better upon these subjects always to speak plainly the whole truth, however unpalatable it may be, and therefore I say that many of those who have been the most forward to decry what has been done, and to censure those who have been charged with its execution, have been apt to forget how much may be their own share of that blame which ought to be ascribed to those through whose errors those evils have unfortunately happened." 1526 1527 1528 Times Times Times Times Times Times Times 1529 1530
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he had asked a question of the Under Secretary for the War Department relative to the summer clothing for our troops in the Crimea. This was the 19th of February, and the answer he had received was that the patterns for the clothing had not been decided upon. They had heard something about the advantages of the change which had been made in the mode of providing clothes for the troops. There seemed grave reasons to doubt whether the clothing under the new system would be better than it had been under the former system; but even if better clothing were not produced, he should he satisfied if convinced that the troops would have summer clothing, or even their ordinary clothing before the warm weather set in. There was no assurance given that the pattern for the clothing had been as yet decided upon, or, indeed, that ordinary clothing was ready; and he did, therefore, trust that the Under
 1579 l 1580
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he regretted to have heard from the noble Lord at the head of the Government an intimation that an ex-Minister who, one would think, had been sufficiently convicted and condemned by the country, had been set forth to patch up a peace which, from his knowledge of the character of the man, he (Colonel Sibthorp) feared would not redound to the honour or interest of England. He hoped England would never succumb to the Russian, nor to any other country; and he had, therefore, hoped that the noble Lord to whom he referred had retired from public life, never again to return to it. He was surprised to hear from the noble Lord, for whom he had the greatest respect, a hint respecting a dissolution of Parliament. Old birds were not to be caught with chaff; and he (Colonel Sibthorp) would not shrink from appearing before his constituents to defend his public conduct. He was prepared to do all in his power to uphold the honour and security of the country, and would be ready to abide by the consequences of doing his duty.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, with regard to the first three questions, which related to the state of things in Calcutta, he was unable to give any answer without reference to Calcutta. He did not know whether Mr. Marshman was interpreter to the Government, whether he had a paper contract with the Government, or whether he was allowed access to public documents which was refused to other editors. With regard to the last question, the papers upon which the statement was made were laid before Parliament, according to the Act, some time in the month of May. He should have been perfectly ready last year to make that statement at a much earlier time, but it was deferred, partly on account of public business, and partly that he might announce to the House the termination of financial operations then going on in India. As regarded the present year, he should be ready to make the statement on the earliest possible day after the papers were in the hands of Members and the state of public business would allow.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that although it was not generally the practice for Government to take part in discussions on the second readings of private Bills, there were some circumstances that rendered it necessary he should make a statement in this particular case. The facts might be stated in a few words. When originally the dock companies were established, they looked for remuneration to the monopoly of the landing and warehousing of certain descriptions of goods, which was given to them for a limited time. A second source of profit was the valuable frontage given to them for warehouses, &c.; and a third was a toll levied on seagoing ships using the water of the docks; but there was at the same time an express enactment that no charge should be made for lighters or barges. There was, in fact, what was known in law as a complete dedication to
 1509
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he begged to ask the noble Viscount, who was lately the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether it is true that the new recordership at Brighton has been conferred on a Queen's Counsel who has been refused admittance to the Bench of the Inn to which he belongs?
 MR. WARNER  said, he was ready to support the Government in carrying on the war, and the more so because the noble Lord at the head of the present Administration possessed to an extraordinary degree the confidence of the public as a War Minister; but he (Mr. Warner) could not think that the explanations given by the noble Lord the other night and the remarks he had just made would be entirely satisfactory to the country. The unfortunate events which had taken place in the East had caused great excitement throughout the country, and the people had placed confidence in the noble Lord because they believed he was prepared to act with energy, and to cut up by the root whatever in the existing system was found to be defective. The duty of the Government was not to make a few paltry reforms, which was all the noble Lord had suggested, but to reorganise and reconstruct a new army in the place of that which we had lost. He feared that the proposals of the noble Lord would not realise the hopes which the nation had formed upon his accession to power. There were evidently some misapprehensions which existed with reference to the war, and upon which he (Mr. Warner) wished to say a few words. They were constantly told that England was not a military nation, but how was this when the House of Commons every year voted supplies for the army about equal in amount to those by which the French army was maintained? France was one of the first military Powers in the world, and it was not the fault of the House of Commons if England was not a military Power; yet it had been considered necessary to call Parliament together at an unusually early period in order to authorise the enlistment of 15,000 foreign troops; our artillery, which had been the subject of so much boasting, had proved to be inferior to that of other armies; and our cavalry, he feared, had been virtually annihilated by the unfortunate mistake committed at Balaklava. These misfortunes, however, had not been brought upon the army by any false economy on the part of Parliament, therefore he must object to those observations that had been made by more
 1542
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he considered that there was another question to be decided besides the interests of the dock companies and the wharfingers, and that was the general interest of the country. He could assure the promoters of the measure that the greatest kindness they could do the country would be to withdraw their Bill. He knew of his own experience that goods were ordered to Hull in consequence of the oppressive charges in London. He had no interest in docks, but he had in the general trade of the country, and therefore felt bound to oppose the Bill.
 MR. BAILLIE  said, he had understood that the proposed land transport service was to consist of 8,000 men. The number of horses attached to such a corps could not be less than 12,000. It would be necessary to calculate some such number, for the food of those animals would have to be sent from this country. They had the authority of no less a person than the Earl of Cardigan that the horses composing our cavalry force in the Crimea had been literally starved to death. It was generally understood that the cavalry in the Crimea was to be increased by at least 1,200 men, now on their way from India, and by at least a similar number to be sent from this country. There had never been any explanation why the horses in the Crimea had been starved to death. Barley, it was known, could be procured in any quantity at a distance of only two days' sail. The head of the Commissariat department, however, still retained his place, an therefore it could not be supposed that the Government had any serious cause of complaint against him. It had been stated that recruits were now to be engaged between the ages of twenty-two and twenty-six, and for periods of one, two, or three years. He had never before heard of engaging troops for one year. That, he considered, would scarcely give time for the recruits to be drilled and brought into a condition to be of service. He therefore supposed no man would be engaged for less than three years, and he wished, at the same time, to know whether men engaged for that perriod were to be allowed the same bounty money as those engaged for the ordinary term of years? He also wished to know whether any steps had been taken to enlist the foreign corps?
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he was sure there was no objection on the part of any Member of that House to vote certain things for which they had been asked. But they had voted nearly the same sums last year. For instance, they voted a large sum for clothing for the army, but the army did not get it; and he wanted to know how they were in the least more sure now that the clothes for which they were now voting the money would ever arrive in the Crimea? They were also going to vote a certain number of horses. They had horses last year, and they starved their horses to death. They were now going to send horses out to the Crimea, but they had not stated, either to-night or at any other time, that they had altered anything between this day and the last twelve months by which they might assure the Committee that they were not going to starve the horses again that they were now about to send out. He was sure the Committee were not prepared to vote 9,000 horses to be sent to the Crimea to be starved to death. And yet, what machinery had the Government now got? He might ask, with the hon. Gentleman behind him (Mr. Layard), what man had they got to say these things should be done? and if he could get no proper answer, he would turn out every man of them from first to last. They required a man of strong mind to do and to act, and not a mere pack of twaddling red-tapists, who did nothing.
 MR. RICH  said, that in reverting to the actual question before the Committee as to the number of troops, he wished to make one suggestion to the Government with regard to the estimate of casualties, which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Frederick Peel) had calculated at 20,000. The hon. Member had stated that an increase of 35,000 men would be required for the addition made to the army this year; that there would be an arrear of 5,000 voted last year, and 20,000 for casualties, making in all 60,000 men. Now, he would put it to the Government whether it was possible for them to put the list of casualties so extremely low? For the year past the casualties in the Crimea had been at least 30,000. God forbid we should have such severe suffering in the ensuing year, but it was impossible, he feared, considering the increased numbers of the army, that the list should not be a heavy one. He was sure that official documents at the Horse Guards would not bear out so low an estimate of casualties upon this number of men as the Government had calculated for. He thought it a most serious subject for the consideration of the Government how they were to raise the requisite number of men. They had already placed the casualties at 20,000, but he thought he should be within the mark when he added 20,000 more to that estimate. It was not for him to suggest how that enormous gap was to be filled up, but he thought the Government ought
 1578
 MR. WILSON  said, he hoped, after the numerous remarks which had been made with reference to the supply of coffee, the Committee would indulge him with an explanation of what had really taken place. The Committee would observe by the papers on the table that in the first instance when coffee was sent to the Crimea, it was not sent as rations, but as an article of sale to those who chose to buy it. When it was sent out it was quite uncertain where it would go to, or whether it would be served as rations at all. But on the only occasion in an English war when coffee had been served as rations—he thought it was the Kafir war—it was invariably served out in an unroasted state, which was preferred both by officers and men, because it was more easily carried, and could be had in a better condition than when roasted. It was sent from this country in March, not as rations, but along with other comforts, to be sold to the troops at prime cost. It was not until, he thought, on the 28th of June that a general order was issued by Lord Raglan, which made it part of the ordinary rations of the troops. He believed it was early in July—the 5th of July—that Sir Charles Trevelyan, conceiving it possible that coffee might be served to the troops in a more convenient state, sent, of his own accord, unmoved by any representation from the East, 5,000 lbs. of roasted coffee, with a
 1596
 MR. WILSON  said, with respect to the porter, he could give no answer, but he would institute inquiries and inform the hon. and gallant Gentleman of the result. He was extremely sorry to hear any department charged with incivility, and, as to Sir Charles Trevelyan's letter, he had no reason to believe he was replying upon other than an ordinary matter of business. Messrs. Collier's communication did not read as a gratuitous offer, and there was no ground for supposing it was any other
 1598
 MR. WILSON  said, the right hon. Gentleman had not sufficiently attended to the explanation which he had already offered on this subject. He had already called the attention of the Committee to the fact that, though the order was given the day after the letter was received, that order was not executed till the 16th of December, and the reason of this was that, after the battle of Inkerman, there was such a demand for ships to transport fresh troops to the Crimea that none could be got to carry the order into effect.
 MR. J. BALL  said, he rose to vindicate his hon. Friend the Member for Aylesbury from a misrepresentation of his expressions which the noble Lord at the head of the Government had twice put forward in the course of the evening. His hon. Friend had never attempted to draw any invidious distinctions between different classes in this country, nor had he attributed a desire and an ability to serve the country to one class more than to another, but what he had endeavoured to impress upon the Government was, that the only way in which affairs could now be conducted was by recognising and putting forward energy and ability in one class as well as in another. He certainly, so far, had not been able to recognise any disposition on the part of Her Majesty's Government to act up to the wishes of the country on this important point, and he had heard with consternation that they had discovered no better way to remedy the inefficiency which existed in our military departments in the Crimea than by sending out Commissions to inquire and report on the maladministration of affairs there. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had acknowledged that there existed great want of energy and ability in some of the departments in the Crimea; and certainly the correspondence respecting the supply of coffee to the troops proved that at least one officer out there had shown himself utterly inefficient and inadequate to the duties of his position. Of course he alluded to Mr. Commissary General Filder, to whose deficiencies in energy and ability be believed much of the sufferings undergone by our troops was to be attributed. That officer, it appeared, commenced by ordering unroasted coffee to be supplied to the troops, and though the evil effects of such a measure were obvious from the very first, though in most cases the coffee was thus rendered entirely useless, and though, moreover, he had been requested in July to report as to the comparative merits of roasted and unroasted coffee, it was not until the middle of October that he ventured to give a somewhat doubtful opinion that the evidence on the whole was favourable to roasted coffee.
 1595
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, that in spite of the sneers which met him from hon. Gentlemen opposite (on the Ministerial benches), he wished to express his opinions fearlessly, yet briefly, upon the question which had caused so much excitement throughout the country. He wished to say that he had great confidence in the noble Lord at the head of the Government, but that he had no confidence in the Cabinet which the noble Lord had formed, for it was a Cabinet condemned alike by the country, by that House, and, with one exception, by every public paper in London, and by the whole country press. With regard to what had been said, rather disparagingly, of our officers, especially of Sir Cohn Campbell and the Duke of Cambridge, he would state his belief that there was no officer more deserving of our admiration than was Sir Colin Campbell for his conduct in the field; and of the Duke of Cambridge he would, without fear of contradiction, observe, that there was not in the whole course of history a record of more heroic conduct than that exhibited by His Royal Highness at Inkerman. He could not allow that, as to those two general officers at least, there was any want of bravery or of military skill. But then he came to the supplies sent out to our army; and on this subject he would express his belief that there was not a single house of respectability in London, in Liverpool, or Glasgow, that would not be ashamed of the manner in which these supplies had been sent out. Every merchant sent out supplies to their agents in foreign countries in a satisfactory manner. Every article was delivered by their shipmasters to the persons to whom consigned by bill of lading. Take, for example, the house of Green and Co. [ Laughter. 1577
 MR. MURROUGH  said, that the House had just heard from the hon. Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Layard) many strictures on the manner in which the army was officered and affairs conducted in the East; but it appeared to him (Mr. Murrough) that not only there, but at home, the country was in the state of Sinbad—ridden by old men. This was not only the case with the army, but they had a Government conducted by men who were past the age when men were adequate to the calls of public life. When the Ministry was formed only three noble Lords were sent for, as if the monopoly of the talent of the country belonged to noble Lords. He was satisfied a noble Lord might be a man of the same capacity and talent as an ordinary man, when at a mature age, and capable of conducting public business; but when he was passed that age, not only was he an old man, but he was worse, and rendered more incapable when his hands were tied with red tape. The noble Lord the Member for Tiverton was three days ago that which he was not now—master of the position; and if he had thrown aside precedents and prejudices he might have formed from below the gangway on either side of the House a better and a stronger Government than they had had in that House for twenty years. There might not, perhaps, have been in it the name of a Russell, an Elliot, or a Cavendish, but they would have had men representing and possessing the confidence of large consituencies. The noble Lord had neglected the chance of having the hon. Member for Aylesbury by his side, and now the hon. Member was at his back. If the noble Lord fell, borne down by a Government which this House had condemned, he had only himself to thank, and he would not be pitied by the country.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he could not agree with the opinions which had been expressed by hon. Members that the failures which had taken place were in any way to be attributed to the want of means or resources on the part of this country. He considered that if those resources had been properly managed they were more than sufficient for the purpose they were intended to effect, and he thought the country had a right to demand some explanation of the reason why, when ample stores were accumulated within six miles of the camp, 20,000 of our soldiers had been lost for want of those supplies which might easily have been afforded them. The most ordinary precautions would have sufficed to place those resources which England had exhausted herself to furnish within reach of our army. No explanation had been given of the reason why those supplies had not been afforded; no punishment had been inflicted upon those to whom blame might attach; no inquiry had been made as to the reason why the stores which had been collected remained at Balaklava, while our troops were perishing for the want of them at a few miles' distance. He considered that the country had a right to insist upon some inquiry being made as to the cause of that failure. Not only had there been gross mismanagement in the Commissariat Department, but also with regard to the medical stores. What was the cause of the scandalous insufficiency of medical aid provided for the troops? How was it, when a medical officer was censured by his commanding officer on one day, that the next he was appointed to a situation of great trust? These were matters requiring strict investigation, which, thanks to the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, there was a chance they might now receive. He did not concur in the opinion of the hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon (General Peel) that a country with a representative Government was ill adapted for carrying on war successfully, for the proposition was contradicted by the experience of European States. The most successful wars had been those in which the energies of free countries had been directed against overwhelming despotism. In-
 1540 1541
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was an owner of dock stock, and was, to a small extent, interested in warehouse property. He had,
 1510
 MAJOR REED  said, he had long been of opinion that the whole system at the Horse Guards was rotten throughout, and if anything could render it more disgraceful and injurious to the country, it was the system of purchase that at present prevailed. The jobbery throughout these transactions was disgraceful in the extreme and in many instances they were in direct violation of the Queen's regulations, which stated that only a certain sum should be paid for promotions, but a considerably larger premium was often payed beyond the sum fixed. He considered that so long as this system was carried on—so long as merit and long service were not duly rewarded—they never would obtain efficient officers. He believed that in the ranks would be found men who, though, perhaps, not so well educated, or
 1543
 MR. GREGSON  said, he had charge of the Bill, and would, therefore, trouble the House with a few observations on the question at issue. The dock companies were at the outset opposed by the same parties who now opposed this Bill, who at the time put in claims to the extent of 3,000,000 l. l.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he thought one of the statements made by the hon. Gentleman hardly consistent with the correspondence laid before the House. The hon. Gentleman stated that the Treasury minute of the 7th of November directed that 225,000 lbs. of coffee, roasted but not ground, should be sent out immediately, but the words of the minute were as follows:—"Write to the Secretary of the Admiralty and request that he will move the Lords Commissioners to direct that early steps may be taken for providing and shipping," &c. Therefore the coffee was not immediately ordered, but simply early steps were directed to be taken for shipping it. The hon. Gentleman said that the application of Messrs. Collier to the Treasury was made on December the 15th, and that several consignments had been ordered by the Treasury to be made before that application of Messrs. Collier, but it would be seen by the 17th page of the correspondence before the House, that great remissness was exhibited in not sending out the roasted coffee as early as possible after the Treasury minute of the 7th of November, for it was not until the 16th of December that the first consignment of it was shipped, and up to the 13th of February the full amount of roasted coffee sent out by that time was not more than 211,000 lbs. It did not appear from these returns that the order for the further supply which was to go out by monthly con-
 1599
 MR. T. BARING  said, that the plea against the Bill was, that it would give the dock companies advantages over their competitors; the plea of the companies was, that now the competitors had all the advantages of their vast establishments and staff without giving anything by way of compensation. That was the ground upon which the Bill was advocated; and the arguments  pro con
 MR. MITCHELL  said, this was not a private, but most certainly a public Bill. It affected the trade of the country, and it was the duty of that House to affirm or not to affirm the principle of such a Bill in the legitimate stage in which that should
 1507 1508
 MR. BARROW  said, he wished to know if any and what provision had been made to supply the 10th Hussars, now on their way to the Crimea from India, with warm winter clothing; and also, if they were to
 1594
 MR. WATSON  said, he had a question of great importance to put to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, namely, what measures had been taken or were in progress for the removal of the convalescents or the patients capable of re-
 1512
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he would make no objection to the Vote for the number of men proposed to the Committee; but he felt bound to say that, on looking through these Estimates, there were various items on which extensive reductions, he considered, might fairly be made. At the same time he felt that it was useless at the present moment to enter into the various matters to which he might refer, with the view of inducing the Committee to agree to any proposition that he might make. He begged to call the attention of the Committee, however, to the charge for the establishments that were to be consolidated. The establishment of the Secretary for War was put down at 18,787 l. l. l., l., l. l. 1564 l., l. l. l. 1565 l., l. l. l. l.
 MR. OTWAY  said, it was to the inaptitude of the Gentlemen who composed the important branches of the service that the failures were owing, and it was from that cause that he had to complain of the inefficiency of the staff, for it was notorious that many of the misfortunes which had occurred were attributable to that branch of the service. As soon as the French army arrived in Kamiesch Bay the staff officers made arrangements for the construction of jetties and wharfs, to facilitate the landing of supplies for the army; but at Balaklava no similar arrangements were made for conveying provisions and stores to the British troops. There was in this country an establishment ably conducted by professors of eminence, to which every officer in the army could have access by applying for it. They might there learn everything necessary to fit them for staff duties; and he believed this establishment sent out annually about thirteen officers fully qualified for every department of the army. Unfortunately, however, these officers were hardly ever appointed to staff situations; and the consequence was, that the staff of the English army was so inefficient that it brought upon it the derision of every foreign officer who might come into contact with it. He had no objection to the present Vote, for he was only surprised, considering the enemy with whom we had to contend, that the number of troops asked for by the Government was so small. He could not, however, help expressing his regret that, considering the deficiencies of the military system, the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of the War Department (Mr. F. Peel) should not have inaugurated his advent to the office by expressing his intention of introducing modifications into some parts of that system. For instance, the manner in which commissions were purchased in the service was a most ridiculous arrangement. Some steps had certainly been taken in the right direction, for a commission in each regiment was to be given to sergeants or non-commissioned officers who were recommended by their colonels or commanding officers for such a mark of distinction. That, however, was not sufficient. In the French army a certain number—he believed, one-third—of the commissions in each regiment were conferred on non-commissioned officers or soldiers, and therefore every private who entered the ranks of that army knew that if he conducted himself properly, if he distinguished himself in action, or if he did anything to deserve
 1582 l l 1583
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL : Sir, in proceeding to ask the Committee to agree to the votes of money which are necessary to cover what the Government considers will be the probable expenditure on account of the Army in the course of the ensuing financial year, I must beg their indulgence, on account of the very short period which has elapsed since I entered upon the duties of my present office, and which has barely allowed me sufficient time to become acquainted with the more prominent features of the contents of these Estimates, much less with their minor and minuter points. I also feel that it is no easy task for any one to render intelligible to the Committee the complicated details of a service like the army, requiring, even in ordinary years, and under ordinary circumstances, to be kept on foot by the appropriation of a considerable portion of the whole annual expenditure which is authorised by Parliament, and which in these Estimates has been swollen to dimensions unusually large, but not, I believe, larger than are commensurate with the magnitude of the operations in which the country is now engaged. I have further to regret the absence, from indisposition, of my right hon. Friend the present Secretary of State for the Colonies, under whose superintendence the Estimates have been framed. I need not observe that I had relied very much on the presence of my right hon. Friend, because of his great familiarity with the subject, and because these Estimates had been prepared under his especial direction. The Estimates for the ensuing financial year differ from those of the current year in more than one respect. In the first place, the number of men which the Government ask the Committee to allow to be borne upon the establishment of the army greatly exceeds that which has been voted for the last year. Then, again, there is a very large augmentation in very many of those services which have always formed a part of the administration of the British Army, and have always been included in the Estimates; but, in addition to those causes of difference, the Committee will observe that these Estimates show the creation of new departments which have never before appeared therein, or been submitted to the sanction of Parliament. I will refer, for instance, to such a department as the land transport service, which it has been found from painful experience necessary to establish. The first Vote to which I shall call the
 1545 1546 l., l. l. l. l., 1547 l l l l l l l l l l 1548 l l 1549 l l l l l l l l 1550 l d. l d 1551 l s. l l l 1552 l s d 1553 l l l l l s l s l s l l l l 1554 l l 1555 l l l l l l l 1556 l l l s s l l l s l 1557 l l l l l 1558 l
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, it was not intended to send the 10th Hussars direct to the Crimea. They would remain in Egypt. until the winter was over.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  was understood to reply that the Government had no intention to maintain the corps to which the hon. Gentleman had alluded.
 SIR JAMES DUKE  said, that this measure, though a Private Bill, very materially affected the public interest. The original Act. authorising the formation of the dock, contained clauses providing that all lighters and craft entering the docks for the purpose of receiving on board the cargoes of ships lying in dock in order to be discharged, should be exempted from the payment of any rate. It was a very suspicious circumstance to see three dock companies now coming forward at the same time to attempt to repeal those clauses, and thus to violate their original Dock Acts. No doubt they came together to intimidate and to prevent opposition by a formidable array of power. This was not a mere question between the dock companies and the wharfingers, to whose wharfs those lighters conveyed the goods taken out of ships in dock; it was an attempt to attack the trade of the port of London, and of every constituency that was represented in that House. The hon. Member for Dundee (Mr. G. Duncan) had told him, the other day, that thousands of tons of a particular description of hemp were brought to London from India, and was there shipped on board the Dundee steamers. He trusted no interference would be allowed with that or any other trade. What ground was there for such a proposal as the present? Now, had the companies' stocks fallen in value, there might have been cause for this measure; but, on
 1506
 SIR ERSKINE PERRY  said, he should be glad to know what were the actual expenses of the army to this country? Those expenses were spread over
 1571 Budget de Guerre, damnosa hereditas 1572 1573 de la sureté publique Thornton's History of India.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the
 1584 1585 1586 1587 1588 1589 Prince 1590 l 1591 1592 1593
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : A Commission was sent out by the noble Duke who held the office of Secretary of State for the War Department, to inquire into the condition of the hospitals, to recommend such measures as they might think right and proper, and to report, not merely to the Government at home, but to Lord Raglan; and Lord Raglan was requested to act on those recommendations without delay. It is the intention of my noble Friend at the head of the War Department to make arrangements for a periodical service between Constantinople and the Crimea on the one hand, and England on the other, for the purpose of bringing home such invalids as are in a condition to be transported by sea, and arrangements will be made for their reception in proper and suitable hospitals on their arrival here.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I should be the last man to blame anybody who should bring under the notice of this House any part of our administrative system, whether it be at home or abroad, which he may think has failed adequately to perform its functions, and which he may think ought, therefore, in any way to be improved. But, Sir, I do protest against the language which we have heard this evening from the hon. Member for Aylesbury, who, while he performs what he thinks a public duty, in pointing out what he considers to be errors and defects in the management of the army, says we have disgraced our country, tells us that we are the laughingstock of Europe, and has thought proper to mingle with his observations and recommendations what I must call vulgar declamation against the aristocracy of this country. Sir, I lament as deeply as the hon. Member or any man the sufferings of our brave army in the Crimea.
 1535 1536 1537 1538 1539
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I appointed that gentleman to his present office, and it is not true that a gentleman was appointed to that office who was refused admittance to the Bench of the Inn to which he belongs, in the way stated by the hon. and learned Gentleman. I selected from amongst the candidates the person who appeared to me, from the testimonials of the highest legal authorities, to be the best to fill the office. I had no personal knowledge of any of the candidates. I took the opinion of the highest legal authorities, and I have no reason to believe that I erred in my judgment.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I beg to state, Sir, that instructions have been sent to China to cancel bonds taken at Shanghai for duties between February the 9th and July the 12th, 1854. Sir John Bowring has been called upon for a full report of all the circumstances under which the bonds were given, and generally as to the state of affairs at Shanghai at the time, and, until his report is received, Tier Majesty's Government must suspend their decision. Sir John Bowring has been informed that no proceedings can be taken in the consular courts in reference to the bonds and securities given at Shanghai between the 7th of September, 1853, and the 9th of February, 1854, which bonds and securities he has been directed to cancel and return to the parties. The decision in regard to bonds subsequently given must he reserved until Sir John Bowring's Report referred to is received. It would depend upon the nature of the question which may have been raised, whether it was susceptible of decision on the spot; but, as a general rule, questions involving the construction of treaty engagements, the solution of which is attended with reasonable doubt, must be referred home for decision by Her Majesty's Government. Directions have been given to warn the Chinese authorities that they must levy equal ditties with impartiality upon the trade of all nations. A state of things has lately arisen at Shanghai from which, although nothing more than what is due is taken in the shape of duties, and that front all alike, the merchants at Shanghai are placed in a disadvantageous position as compared with the merchants at other ports where a taxer system prevails. Sir John Bowring's attention has been particularly called to this state of things, and he has been directed to endeavour to remedy it, by urging the adoption at other ports of the Shanghai system, under which the duties are collected on behalf of the Chinese Government by a Committee of three foreigners; but no instructions have been given to urge the general adoption of the Canton system. The treaty with China prescribes a certain degree of consular interference for the protection of the Chinese revenue, and the consuls hold the ship's papers until proof is produced to them that the
 1514
 MR. H. T. LIDDELL  said, that after the assurance of the right hon. Gentleman to the House that an understanding had been arrived at not in any way to prejudice a free and full consideration of the ulterior question, he trusted the House would have no hesitation in permitting the Bill to go through a second reading.
 MR. ELLIOTT  said, that, as a Scotch Member, he could not conceive anything more calculated to raise the moral character of the people of Scotland, than the hon. Member's proposal; and its benefit
 1651
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it was very far from his intention to offer the slightest opposition to the introduction of this Bill; but when the hon. and learned Member introduced a Bill upon the subject last Session, that Bill appeared to almost every lawyer in the House to be an almost hopeless Bill; a more crude specimen of legislation he never saw. At the same time, he quite agreed with the hon. and learned Member that the subject was highly important, and if any scheme could be devised whereby a public prosecutor could be appointed, consistently with a due regard to the expense, and a due consideration of the difficulty which must be occasioned with so large an amount of patronage, he was ready to admit that the appointment of a public prosecutor was most desirable. He had offered his co-operation to the hon. and learned Member, and they had met to discuss the subject, when the hon. and learned Member said he could suggest nothing better than this. It assuredly was a subject of the greatest difficulty. The whole of our existing administration of justice was entirely distinct from the existence of a public prosecutor, and almost inconsistent with it; it would be entirely new and foreign to the present system, although he agreed that it might
 1653 1654
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, be fully concurred in what had just fallen from the right hon. and learned Gentleman. In Ireland there was a system long established, under which, the moment an offence was discovered to have been committed, there was some public officer who had it in charge, and whose duty it was, not only to prepare the evidence against the prisoner, but also to secure the attendance of persons who could give evidence in his favour. That system had given great satisfaction, and he hoped the measure now proposed would be persevered with, and he should be glad to give all his aid towards carrying it to a successful issue.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, he thought the House had some reason to complain of the notice which appeared on the paper, and which might have been reasonably supposed to lead to a different sort of debate than that to which the House had been called upon to listen. The terms of the Motion were, "To call the attention of the House to the state of our trade with Russia, and to move for a return of the Russian exports from Archangel to this country during the present year." Now the port of Archangel was closed with ice, and would not be open until the middle of June. [Mr. COLLIER said his Motion was intended to refer to last year.] It was not his intention to trespass long upon the time of the House after the able speeches which had been made by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, and the hon. Member for Stoke upon Trent (Mr. J. L. Ricardo), but as he had been personally alluded to by one of the hon. Members who had brought forward this Motion, he thought he was bound to offer one or two words of explanation. He had joined a deputation that had waited upon the Earl of Clarendon a few weeks ago, and he, perhaps, might be enabled to enlighten the House upon one or two points. The hon. Member for Bridport (Mr. Mitchell) had cast some unworthy taunts upon the millowners who were engaged in the manufacture of linen. He would not follow the example of his hon. Friend, for he should be sorry to cast censures upon any large bodies of his countrymen. There could be no
 1703 1704
 MR. HEADLAM  said, the constituency which he represented had suffered most grievously, in consequence of the statements made by the Government with respect to their intention of instituting a blockade not having been carried out. In
 1707
 MR. DUNCAN  said, he felt bound to express his thankfulness to the right hon. Baronet, representing as he (Mr. Duncan) did a large commercial community interested in the trade of the White Sea, for the considerate manner in which he had protected the interests of the merchants of Dundee, and of the mercantile classes of this country generally. Many of his constituents having remitted money to Archangel for goods, he at an early period waited upon the right hon. Baronet and the President of the Board of Trade to inquire whether their goods could be brought away, The right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) stated that he could not authorise a direct trade with the enemy. He (Mr. Duncan) said he should not ask for anything of the sort, and explained the circumstances under which he made the application. On the 10th of May he received from the right hon. Baronet authority to intimate to his constituents that they might bring away the goods. He asked him if he could give any time? and his answer was, "Get them away as fast as you can." The result was, that large freights were given to neutral vessels, and the goods were eventually brought away. He believed that in taking advantage of
 1711
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he begged to thank the hon. Member for having introduced this measure, and cordially agreed with him, that a mere benevolent society, without some legislative provision, would be found ineffectual to correct the evil in a great city; with the assistance of such a measure as this, however, he conceived it might be done.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he must call upon the House to hesitate before they adopted the propositions of the hon. Gentleman, as he did not think they would have the good effect anticipated by the hon. Gentleman, but, on the contrary, would be attended by evils which he had not contemplated. If his first proposition were to operate at all, it would have the effect of pressing all the Bills introduced into that House to a second reading before the 1st of July, and the practical result would be that Committees on Bills would be postponed until after that day. This would not by any means lessen the labour of the House or decrease the time it would spend upon these Bills in the latter part of the Session. The second reading of unimportant Bills could come on at any time; but if many of them were brought on in the early part of the Session, they would be a fruitful source of conversations, while if they were introduced at the end of the
 1646 1647
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he begged to move for leave to bring in a Bill to facilitate the erection of dwelling-houses for the working classes in Scotland. An increased accommodation for the working classes in Scotland was rendered necessary by the increase of population and the decrease of dwelling-houses, especially in
 1650 s. s. l. l.
 MR. PACKE  said, he thought that the proposed Bill was so important that the hon. and learned proposer of it would exercise a sound discretion in allowing it to be investigated before a Select Committee. It was not his intention to offer any opposition to the Bill; but he wished to notice the strong language used by the hon. and learned proposer of the measure with reference to the police of the country. A more excellent or worthy body of men did not
 1658
 MR. PACKE  said, that that portion of the police with which he was acquainted—namely, the police of the country of Leicester—were free from such a charge. Since its establishment crime had diminished one-half in the county; and the police in question had the confidence and respect of every individual in the county.
 MR. CARDWELL : Sir, the Motion which has been brought forward with so much ability by my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Plymouth is for the production of certain papers, which of course the Government can have no objection to lay upon the table, but probably the House may consider that on a question
 1683 1684 1685 1686 1687 "Grows like the summer grass, fastest by night, Unseen, but crescive in its faculty;"
 MR. CARDWELL : If my hon. Friend desires it, I will read what Messrs. Catley and Co. say,  in extenso. "The expense, risk, and delay attending the overland trade has caused much discouragement and dissatisfaction, and there is little disposition here to continue it. We may state, in explanation
 1688 l. l. l., "It is scarcely credible, but we believe it to be a fact, that the sum disbursed for land carriage in the overland trade above alluded to considerably exceeds 1,000,000 l. 1689 d. d., d. d. 1690 1691 "As to the supply of cotton, he did not fear but that our own colonies and the East Indies would yield a very sufficient supply in case we should get none from America." "That he believed there never could be any deficiency in the supply of cotton wool, as the East Indies could yield a supply to any extent." 1692 1693 "When war was declared by Her Majesty's Government against the Emperor of Russia, it was at once apparent that the interruption of our commercial relations with that empire might seriously affect the supply of the raw material of the British and Irish linen manufacture, as well as of the seed which has hitherto been obtained from Riga for sowing in Ireland. When it is remembered that of an annual average of 80,000 tons of flax from all countries, nearly 60,000 tons are brought from Russia alone, and that, of the yearly impart of flax-seed for sowing in Ireland, from two-thirds to three-fourths come from Riga, it will at once be seen that the cessation or diminution of the supply of these articles, as a consequence of the war, might be productive of serious inconvenience to the linen manufacturers of the United Kingdom, and to the flax-growers of Ireland." "To such height was this practice carried by the French Emperor that it opened up new channels of commerce to British industry quite equal,
 1694 1695 Commentaries "It is contended that it is unjust and illegal for neutrals to avail themselves of the pressure of war to engage in a new species of traffic not permitted in peace, and which the necessities of one belligerent oblige him to grant to the detriment, or, perhaps, the destruction of the other." 1696 1697 1698
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he could not conceive any subject of greater interest than this, and he should be exceedingly happy to see a Bill brought in upon it; so far as his department was concerned, the Government would render any aid they could to make it a perfect measure; but, at the same time, he must point out to the hon. Member that there were some difficulties in dealing with the subject.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he wished to know whether the hon. Gentleman meant that he had been guilty of a serious error only in argument, or whether he meant a serious error in fact.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that no prejudice to ulterior legislation should arise from the passing of the Bill.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that early in 1852 the question of tolls and other dues levied on ships, from which the parties paying those dues derived no benefit, came under the consideration of that House; and the Government issued a Crown Commission for the purpose of collecting a mass of information upon which future legislation might be founded. At the same time Parliament enacted a clause in the Merchant Shipping Bill for the purpose of effecting the object the two hon. Gentlemen who had addressed the House had in view—namely, to prevent Parliamentary legislation being prejudiced in the meantime by pledges and mortgages. That clause was now in operation, and it would be his duty to take especial care that no Bill passed the House exempting any fund from the provision of that clause. He had had an interview that morning with the Chairman of the Liverpool Docks and of the Liverpool Finance Committee, who had placed in his hands a paper containing what he considered to be a stipulation that the present Bill should not pass through Parliament without a careful reservation of the clause in question. It would, therefore, be impossible to pledge the Liverpool dock and harbour dues without the consent of the Lords of the Treasury and of the department over which he (Mr. Cardwell) had the honour to preside, and he for his part should take care to prevent the objects of Parliament being forestalled in any way. This was a question of very great importance and of very great difficulty. It ought in any case to be viewed dispassionately, and not to be prejudiced by hills passed in the meantime. The present Bill was one for the improvement of the town of Liverpool, and he did not think it would be at all just to
 1633
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he had been intrusted with petitions against the Bill, but, solicited as he was, he should not stand in the way of the second reading if the right hon. Gentleman would give him an assurance that the Bill should contain a clause providing that no prejudice should arise to future Parliamentary legislation.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, the Liverpool dock and harbour dues amounted to
 1632 l.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he could not concur with the hon. and learned Attorney General as to the extreme difficulty of establishing a system of public prosecutors. There was no difficulty about it in Ireland, where the earlier stages of criminal proceedings were much in the hands of public officers, who held a position like that of stipendiary magistrates in this country, and whose duty was to sift and investigate the evidence before it assumed the form of sworn informations, and it was not until afterwards that the matter came into the hands of counsel, who acted as public prosecutors on circuit, and who had a double duty, not only to punish the guilty, but to take care that no innocent person should suffer punishment.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he must explain that what he said was that there were to be found among the class of police some of the most hardened characters; but he did not speak so generally of the police.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he would now beg to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the appointment of public prosecutors. He would not occupy the time of the House at present in stating its details, for he understood it was not the intention of Government to oppose the introduction of the measure. It was most important that every step in a criminal proceeding should be an act done by public authority, and as the law now stood, all that important part of the proceedings, which elapsed from the discovery that the crime had been committed until the prisoner was brought before a superior Judge to take his trial, was totally unprovided for. Even when the case against the prisoner was closed before the magistrates, and when the examinations and depositions were brought before a public officer, everything was left to chance. The Crown, indeed, was the nominal prosecutor, but the consequence was that we gave to policemen, to a class amongst whom were to be found some of the most hardened and profligate of mankind, and over whom the most incessant vigilance was requisite to prevent flagrant and cruel abuses of their authority, we gave to these men an unlimited power of pardon and connivance; and we intrusted them with an authority
 1652
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE,  in reply, said, he thought the speech of the hon. and learned Attorney General was more worthy of the days of Lord Eldon than of the representative of a Liberal Administration. The hon. and learned Gentleman had, no doubt, unintentionally deceived him last year, and the question was quite as ripe for consideration as it would be twenty years hence. As to the measure he had proposed being a crude piece of legislation, all he could say was, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had not suggested anything better.
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  said, he should be quite willing, after hearing the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, to leave the argument as it had been stated by the hon. and learned Gentleman who made the Motion and his hon. Friend who seconded it, and as it had been answered by the President of the Board of Trade. But, at the same time, he did not think there could be any policy in letting in a little of the Russian trade, or in admitting that the raw material was what we wanted, and refusing to give every encouragement to those who would furnish it for the purpose which had been so well described by the right hon. Gentleman. Before he replied to what had been said, he was bound to state that no man who knew his hon. Friend (Mr. Mitchell) could attribute to him any motive of self-interest in the course he had taken on that occasion, and the very position of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Collier) who had made that Motion was sufficient to convince anybody that he also was not actuated by any such feelings. Both of these hon. Members did well in disclaiming on behalf of those who urged them to bring forward this subject that any self-interest was mixed up with the patriotic cry for a stringent blockade, of which they were the organs. He (Mr. Ricardo), however, viewed with great sus-
 1699 1700 [Laughter.] 1701 l. l.; l. l. l. 1702 l. l.;
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, that from the explanations which had been offered to the House by the hon. and learned Serjeant, he understood that the Bill which he was about to introduce was identical with the Tenants' Compensation Bill, which he (Sir J. Young) had moved, and had the good fortune to pass in that House two years ago, together with the Leasing Powers Bill of the right hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier). He was happy to be able to relieve the hon. and learned Serjeant's mind of any uneasiness which he might feel with respect to the fate of his Motion, by assuring him that Her Majesty's Government would offer no opposition whatsoever to the introduction of his Bill. With reference to the Amendments which were proposed to be made in the Bill in Committee he could not give the hon. and learned Gentleman any distinct assurance. The points which were involved in those Amendments had been discussed in the Committee upstairs, and the preponderance of opinion had certainly been against their adoption. However that might be, he had much satisfaction in bearing testimony to the moderation which the hon. and learned Gentleman had that evening displayed, and he trusted that they might, before long, see the question of landlord and tenant in Ireland brought to a happy issue.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he begged to inquire whether any report had been received from the engineers sent out to construct the railway at Balaklava, stating the progress which had been already made, and the time that would be necessary for completing the railway? Also, whether any common stone road exists between Balaklava and the extremity of the lines capable of serving the wants of the army; and, if not, whether any orders have been given for the construction of such a road?
 MR. LOCKE : Can the noble Lord say
 1634
 MR. NAPIER  said, when a similar Bill to the present was introduced last year he gave it his support, and he certainly, on that occasion, understood the hon. and learned Attorney General to say that he would communicate on the subject with the Lord Advocate of Scotland and the Solicitor General for Ireland, and, if the principle of the measure met with the concurrence of those learned Gentlemen, it would be satisfactory to him. As far as his recollection went, the principle of that Bill was approved, but great difficulty, he was aware, was experienced in respect to the details. It was the general opinion, that the administration of public justice ought not to be left in the hand of private individuals, who might be actuated by personal motives, and he certainly thought the machinery now existing in Ireland might, with some improvements adapted to meet the requirements of this country, form the basis of something like a perfect system. The hon. Member for Wexford had not correctly stated the cases he had given; for, so far from Mr. Carden being acquitted, he was convicted. [Mr. M'MAHON: Not of the felony.] That person was charged with two offences—felony and misdemeanor, and though it was not thought proper to press the case of felony, he was convicted of the misdemeanor, and was now in gaol. Then. again, the hon. Member was mistaken with respect to the inquisition at Ennis, and as to its having anything to do with the prosecution of the soldiers. He (Mr. Napier) was of opinion that when they were using the name of the Crown to bring parties to public justice for a breach of the laws, the prosecution ought to be intrusted to a public officer responsible to his Sovereign and to Parliament; for nothing could be worse than to leave the prosecution of criminals in the hands of private individuals, who might, under certain circumstances, keep back the evidence or compromise the matter. Such a system was unsound, and it would be a great public advantage if it were put an end to. In all cases of public prosecution, great care should be taken in previous investigations before the matter was brought into Court, so that it might be presented to the jury in the most per
 1657
 MR. M'MAHON  said, if the Bill intended to be introduced were similar to the one brought in by the hon. and learned Gentleman last year, he should be prepared to oppose it, because that Bill would have had the effect of introducing a most objectionable system; a system which had been adopted in Ireland, and which had signally failed in securing public confidence in the administration of criminal justice in that country. To illustrate the operation of the system pursued in Ireland, and that which was at present the law in England, he would mention the case of the disturbances at the elections at Stockport in this country, and at Ennis in Ireland. A riot occurred at Stockport which resulted in loss of life; the parties prosecuting selected their own counsel, and conducted the matter in their own way. The accused were tried and justice was administered so satisfactorily that nobody heard a word against it. Now, at Ennis there was a serious riot in which some soldiers were involved. The Crown Solicitor undertook the defence before the coroner, and, after a verdict had been obtained, application was made to the Court of Queen's Bench to quash the inquisition. That application was unsuccessful. A change of Government then took place. Another Attorney General and another Solicitor General came into office, and they undertook the prosecution of the same parties, and also of a Catholic priest who was charged with having instigated the riot. What ultimately was the effect of these proceedings? Why, both the priest and the soldiers escaped prosecution altogether, both sets of proceedings being abandoned, each as a set off to the other. Another illustration of the system was the well-known
 1655 sobriquet
 MR. COLLIER  said, that in moving for a return of the Russian exports from Archangel to this country during the present year, he wished to ask the attention of the House for a short time, while he brought before them this matter, of which he had given notice. It was a question most intimately connected with the subject of the war now pending, and was, he felt certain all hon. Members would allow, a matter of very considerable importance. He had framed his Motion in the shape of asking for Returns, as it seemed to him that on the accession of a new Government it would be premature to pledge the House to any opinion in the shape of a Resolution. He was desirous to hear from the Government an explanation of the past, and he thought the House was entitled, to some extent, to have a statement of their intentions for the future. Should those explanations be satisfactory, the object of his Motion would be attained; should they not be satisfactory, it would be still open to him to consider whether he should state the policy which he con-
 1660 1661 d. d., l. l. d., l. l., 1662 "He had on more than one occasion endeavoured to give a distinct answer to a question nearly identical with that now put. istinct orders had been sent by the Governments of France and England to institute a rigorous blockade of the principal Russian ports both in the Baltic and the Black Sea, and the effect of that blockade would apply to ships of all nations, whether neutral, French, or English. No official information had yet been received either from the Baltic or Black Sea that those blockades had been instituted, and, in the absence of such official information, no proclamation had been made either in the  London Gazette, de facto, "I have repeatedly answered questions on this point, and I have endeavoured to make my answers as clear as a sense of duty would allow me. Orders were given some time ago to the admirals both in the Black Sea and in the Baltic to institute a strict blockade of the Russian ports; and I have every reason to believe that these blockades have been instituted." 1663 "Shipments of linseed have continued to be made from the Russian ports of the Black Sea and Sea of Azoff, on a scale unprecedented in any previous year. Since the declaration of war, that is, from May to December, 380 to 400 ships, carrying about 700,000 quarters of linseed, have sailed from the Russian ports of the Black Sea and Sea of Azoff, representing a value to Russia of about a million sterling in this one article only. The greatest previous annual export of linseed was in 1852 and 1853; that in the entire twelve months of 1853 being 640,000 quarters, and in the entire twelve months of 1852 only 445,000 quarters; whereas in the eight months of this present year of war, in the face of an assured blockade, we have the enormous export of 700,000 quarters, and that in an article of the first magnitude as respects the trade of the Black Sea." "The injury to British merchants, as alluded to in the foregoing memorandum, has continued through the interim since July. The reiterated assurance on the part of Ministers that blockade would be strictly enforced, has had the effect, not only of placing this considerable trade in the hands of foreign houses, but the counter operations into which the said British merchants were driven in consequence of their being so warned off from the Black Sea, are threatened with loss owing to the immense import from the very quarter from which they were thus interdicted, and from which Government assured them repeatedly nothing would be allowed to come. As a collateral consequence, the neutral shipowner has found his vessels employed at high rates, whereas, imports of the like articles from neutral countries on which British ships could have been engaged, have been proportionally discouraged." 1664 1665 l. 1666 "'One of the custom houses on the frontier has taken as much as 1,000 thalers a-day for import duties, and as many as 500 cartloads of hemp and flax have frequently arrived per day at Memel. Throughout the summer the town has presented an extraordinary spectacle. Every warehouse, coachhouse, stable, and outhouse has been literally crammed with merchandise; the streets and open spaces have been piled with it; while upwards of 100 ships have been kept lying in the harbour, unable to discharge their cargoes, on account of all the landing-places being occupied. Landlords have realised rents, taverns and shopkeepers have obtained prices comparable to those which resulted from the rush of emigration to Melbourne.' It is estimated that the extra cost paid on Russian produce belonging to the British merchant, for its transport by the Russian peasantry to Memel, is no less than 2,500,000 l. l. 1667 1668 1669 d. d., 1670 Economist Economist 1671 "The import of tallow, therefore, is stationary or declining, the quantity from Russia not increasing, while our growing demand for materials of that description is supplied by the increasing quantities of palm and cocoa-nut oil. In like manner, the largely increasing supply of hemp comes less from Russia than other quarters." "It should not be forgotten by those who anticipate still higher prices for Russian produce that oily matters, which can be substituted for tallow in many cases, may be obtained from the vegetable as well as from the animal kingdom, and that numerous substitutes may be found for hemp, as well as wheaten bread." Economist "We may expect, therefore, from the impediment which war will lay in our way of getting tallow, hemp, and corn from the uncivilised space the Czar governs, that art and industry will know how to obtain from the whole of the rest of the world a greater abundance than hitherto of useful articles than stationary or retrograding Russia can possibly supply." "In the early part of the present year, when it was expected the supply of hemp from Russia would be stopped, we called the attention of several of our friends to the hemp from India, and they have forwarded us samples of superior qualities, well adapted for all the purposes of Russian hemp; but it would take some time before any large quantity could be obtained, properly prepared for the purpose, and arrangements were made for so preparing the crop that would have come in next year; but, after it was discovered that the supply from Russia would be regular through Prussia, there was no inducement strong enough to urge them to carry out these arrangements, and they have, therefore, fallen to the ground, and instead of our getting the large supply we expected, there will be very little more than the usual supply from those places. If, however, it were certain that the trade with Russia would be stopped for one year only, it would give such an impetus to the growers of fibres in the colonies that we might for the future leave them entirely to themselves, and we should be sure, in the year 1856, and after that, to receive such quantities and quality that would make us perfectly independent of Russian hemp, as the producers would be able to send it (after they were once fairly started) at prices that would compete with Russian hemp when at its lowest price, and it would also be of great advantage in doing away with the prejudice now existing on the part of consumers about trying a new article." 1672 1673
 MR. COLLIER : No, not in fact.
 MR. COLLIER,  in reply, said, he must beg to explain that any expression he had used with regard to the blockade was not intended to apply to the administration of the Admiralty by the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham), but he had alluded to the conduct of some of those intrusted with the administration of the navy at Balaklava. With regard to his complaint on the subject of the blockade in the Black Sea, he should leave it to the country to decide how far it had been satisfactorily answered. With regard to the blockade in the Baltic he had urged that either there should be a good blockade or none, and he had asserted that the blockade bad been seriously evaded. He wished to call attention to a serious mistake which had been made by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cardwell). The right hon. Gentleman had in his argument taken the returns of the Board of Trade of imports from Russia into this country during the last year; but the fact was, the imports were now carried on by means of land carriage, by which goods were detained longer in transit; and the question was not what quantity of goods was imported, but what quantity was ordered and on its way. When, therefore, the right hon. Gentleman referred to the returns to show a diminution of 62 per cent in the imports last year, he adopted a fallacious test of the extent of the trade,
 1712
 MR. SOTHERON  said, he would now beg to bring forward the Motion of which he bad given notice, which was to the effect that no public Bill should be read in that House a second time after the 1st day of July without special leave. He thought that it was desirable to introduce this subject early in the Session in order to obviate the pressure of business which always accrued towards the latter portion of the Session. He found that the House sat during the month of July last year on twenty-two days, and the aggregate length of those sittings was 240 hours. The number of Orders of the Day appointed during that month was no less than 508.
 1645
 MR. SOTHERON  said, he was perfectly aware that the Resolutions ought not to be adopted, unless they met with general support; and, having positively met with no support at all, he would not press them on the House.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, there was a principle of public policy involved in this Bill, and he wished to direct the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade to it. Commissioners had been appointed last year to inquire into the local charges on shipping in all parts of the United Kingdom, and they had reported that all charges upon shipping levied in docks and harbours, and not expended for purely maritime purposes, should be abolished. In consequence of that Report, the Government, he conceived, would feel it their duty to legislate on that subject; but if in the meantime that House passed private Bills of the kind now before them, which mortgaged the Liverpool harbour dues and pledged them for moneys to be raised for town improvement, they would entirely defeat the Government's intention. The improvement of the town of Liverpool should be effected by means of a borough rate; and he hoped the House would at least insert in the present Bill a clause to prevent those dues from being taken out of the future consideration of the Government.
 MR. MITCHELL  said, that in seconding the Motion of his hon. and learned Friend, he concurred generally with what had fallen from him, but he wished to fill up, with a few details, the outline he had drawn, which details might, perhaps, be necessary to enable Her Majesty's Government to come to some decision upon this question. And, first of all, he regretted that his hon. and learned Friend had changed the form of his Motion. As it orignally stood, it was one directly expressing the opinion of this House—that the trade of Russia ought to be further restricted. He regretted that that course was not persisted in. The Government had had the fullest time to consider this question. Three months ago, in answer to a deputation from the flax merchants of Dundee, the Earl of Clarendon said the
 1674 1675 1676 s. l. 1677 1678 l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l., l. l. 1679 1680 viá 1681 s. s. l. l l., 1682
 MR. MITCHELL : I wish to inquire if the cost of carriage is included in the calculation?
 MR. PHINN  said, he thought his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General had had great injustice done to him. It bad been complained that that hon. and learned Member had held out a promise to the hon. and learned Member for Leominster (Mr. J. G. Phillimore) to consider the subject and frame a proper measure. So far as the Attorney General was concerned. he (Mr. Phinn) knew that he had fulfilled his promise as far as possible. His hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General had consulted the Lord Chief Justice and gentlemen of great experience, all of whom were anxious, if practicable, to form a measure capable of being put into operation. It was, however, very easy to enunciate sweeping principles, and to lay down rules in which all concurred. Every one concurred in the necessity of having a public prosecutor, but it was very difficult to engraft a new system of administration upon an old and complicated system. There was a strong feeling against magistrates' clerks being paid by fees, and it had been proposed to pay them by salaries, and thus make them independent of cases which now it was their interest to get sent for trial, and to make them in the first instance public prosecutors. With that view he (Mr. Phinn) had moved for certain returns showing the fees that those clerks had received, and he regretted that those returns had not yet been laid before the House, as they would have afforded considerable information in connection with this particular subject. There was another question intimately connected with this—the grand jury. Was that to be permitted to exist together with the public prosecutor? Another question was—in whom would the patronage vest? He had a very strong objection to the patronage of the bar being vested in the Judges, as tending
 1659
 MR. EWART  said, he had taken up this subject himself many years ago, but he found it so beset with difficulties that he could not go on. His counsel was that his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. J. G. Phillimore) should precede the introduction of the Bill with a clear investigation of the subject by a Select Committee. That must be the real basis of any legislation on the subject, and he apprehended the House would never consent to pass a measure of this importance unless the subject was previously referred to a Select Committee, who should have the power of examining witnesses, and should thoroughly consider the important questions involved in it, through which he was willing to confess he did not, as yet, see his way at all. He did not, however, see all the objections which the hon. and learned Attorney General and the hon. Member
 1656
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE : Sir, as I can hardly conceive it possible that there should be any opposition on the part of Her Majesty's Government to the first, or even second reading of the Bill which I wish to introduce, it will not be necessary for me to detain the House by any lengthened observations upon it. I should content myself, indeed, with the briefest statement of its provisions, were it not for the unhappy indifference to all questions connected with Ireland which is manifested by a majority of the House. No doubt there are many honourable exceptions; but still it is necessary, whatever may be the nature of the measure proposed—ecclesiastical, economical, or political—to begin again in every Session from the beginning, and demonstrate the existence of evils, notorious in the country which is afflicted by them. On the Irish land question this difficulty is more disheartening than on any other. Forgetting the agrarian misery, disorganisation, and crime which, in the presence of foreigners, and even at home, have so often brought a hot blush upon the face of Englishmen, hon. Members are too apt, as they rise from their seats to leave the House, or stand in groups about the lobbies, during the discussion of this, to Ireland, vital subject, to exclaim—How long will this thing last? What can these Irish Members want? Are not the laws which regulate the relation between landlord and tenant in Ireland substantially the same as in England? Why cannot Irish tenants agree with Irish landlords, as English tenants agree with English landlords? The law relating to landlord and tenant in Ireland is substantially the same as in England; but the inveterate agricultural customs and agrarian economies of the two countries are so widely different as to make the same law in one country a just and useful law; in the other a fatal discouragement to industry, and an engine of injustice and oppression. In the first place, owing in a great degree to the confiscations of former times in favour of English settlers, and of powerful English families, then and still possessed of large landed
 1635 l. l., l., The Tenure Improvement of Land in Ireland, Tract on the Popery Laws, "In point of fact," say Messrs. Ferguson and Vance, "the prevailing practice in Ireland, as stated in the Report of the Devon Commissioners was, and is, that the dwelling-houses and farm buildings, the necessary and suitable adjuncts to every farm, and which are built and provided by every landlord in England and Scotland, are for the most part made by the tenant; and that the landlords do not usually either make, or maintain
 1636 Tract on the Popery Laws, "Ireland is a country almost wholly unplanted. The farms have neither dwelling-houses nor good offices, nor are the lands almost anywhere provided with fences and communications; in a word, in a very unimproved state. The landowner there never takes upon himself, as is usual in this kingdom, to supply all these conveniences, and to set down his tenant in what may be called a completely furnished farm. If the tenant will not do it, it is never done. This circumstance shows how miserably and peculiarly impolitic it has been in Ireland to tie down the body of the tenantry to short and unprofitable tenures. A finished and furnished house will be taken for any term, however short; if the repair lies on the owner, the shorter the better. But no one will take one not only unfurnished but half built but upon a term which, on calculation, will answer with profit all his charges. It was on this principle that the Romans established their Emphyteusis or Fee-Farm; for though they extended the ordinary term of their location only to nine years, yet they encouraged a more permanent letting to farm with the condition of improvement as well as of annual payment on the part of the tenant where land had lain rough and neglected, and, therefore, invested this species of engrafted holding, in the later times, when property came to be Worse distributed by falling into few hands." 1637 Principles of Political Economy 1638 l. s. l. 1639 1640 1641 l. l. quid leges sine moribus 1642 vice versâ 1643 1644
 MR. WATSON  said, that he did not distinctly understand the policy of the Government; for while they avowed an intention of carrying on the strict system of blockade which had been pursued in all former wars, the argument of the President of the Board of Trade, if good for anything, went to show that blockades should be entirely done away with, and that free trade should be allowed in time of war as in time of peace. Now, he could not assent to this, for he believed
 1705 1706
 MR. WILKINSON  said, he must express a hope that the measure would be extended to England at some future period.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he regarded the third proposition of the hon. Member as the greatest innovation ever attempted upon the privileges of Members of that House. To say that Members should have no opportunity of bringing on Motions after Whitsuntide would be to say that they had nothing to do but to vote for or against the Government.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Sir, I have had some hesitation as to whether I should break silence upon this subject or not, because I am conscious that I sinned during the last Session by saying too much with reference to our intentions as to blockade, and somewhat indiscreetly, from time to time, with an honest desire to give information to the commercial interests of this country, I answered questions put to me in a searching manner, and, as I now think, I answered them somewhat prematurely. But, Sir, as the matter now stands, I have been taxed, in terms not intended, I am sure to be disrespectful, but somewhat harsh, by the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth. I have been pronounced by him to be both incompetent and incapable. [Mr. COLLIER: No, no!] I certainly understood the hon. and learned Gentleman to have used terms somewhat of that description. I am very sorry that I should have incurred displeasure by misconducting myself in an official capacity upon this question, in which I feel that great interests are concerned, and great caution ought to be observed. The hon. and learned Gentleman did me justice when he said that he was certain that, at the time I gave the answer, it was intended by the Government that a rigid blockade should be instituted in the Black Sea. Orders to that effect had been issued. My right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade, in the admirable speech he has addressed to the House this evening, stated correctly to the House that it was necessary to remember that we were conducting this war in alliance with a ma-
 1708 1709 de facto, 1710
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that the proposals of the hon. Gentleman were at first sight very plausible, like many others of a similar kind. There was no question that the great accumulation of business during the Session of Parliament was attended not only with inconvenience to Members of the House, but that also in certain cases it was detrimental to the public service. But the House ought to recollect for what purpose they were there assembled. The convenience of Members was frequently a matter of public interest, because, unless hon. Members were able to bring a due share of physical strength and the power of mental attention to the
 1648 1649
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he had received no report which would enable him to state with any degree of precision what length of time its formation would occupy.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he felt much pleasure in answering the question put to him by the hon. Gentleman. Accounts had been received of the arrival of the engineers and workmen at Balaklava who were to lay down the railway. On the 6th of February they had already begun to lay a portion of the road down, and there were materials at Balaklava for the construction of fifteen miles of rails, together with all things necessary for the purpose of laying them down. The men were proceeding with the work with every prospect of speed and success. As to the question whether there was any other road between the extremity of the lines and Balaklava, he apprehended there was no other road than that which had hitherto existed, and which was so very bad as to be useless in wet weather.
 MR. H. BERKELEY said, he thought that evidence ought to be taken by a Select Committee on this subject. It was very important, and the law upon it ought to be carefully settled.
 LORD SEYMOUR said, he considered that the Nuisances Removal and the Public Health Bill should be taken and considered together. It was impossible to speak of one without at the same time speaking of the other. He thought the course taken last year by the late Government was a very judicious one. It was very fortunate that they had now in the House an hon. Member who represented the Board of Health, and to whom complaints could be made. So far they had gained a great step; but when he came to consider those two Bills, he must say he found, especially in the Public Health Bill, a great deal that would require consideration and considerable alteration before they could be satisfactory to the country. There were some portions of the Public Health Bill which it certainly would be more judicious to remove to the Nuisances Removal and Diseases Prevention Bill. The power of summary interference given to the Board of Health when deaths exceeded twenty-three in a thousand ought to be taken out of the Board of Health Act altogether, and should come under the Diseases Prevention Act; for the Public Health Bill proceeded on the principle of the election of local boards by local ratepayers, and not on the principle of the arbitrary interference of a central board. Then, the question of boundaries to be enforced was one of great difficulty, doubts, and disputes, and ought to be very carefully considered by a Select Committee upstairs. Again, it was provided that where there was a district to be brought under the Act, and a small suburb in the neighbourhood, a majority of votes in the district should suffice to bring in the suburb, whether that suburb liked or not. Now, he thought that was not only unfair, but unjust. There ought to be afforded to a small suburb some means of defending itself against a large town in the neighbourhood. The suburbs were just the parts that were the most improved. They had been recently built, they were generally well drained,
 1715
 LORD SEYMOUR said, he was very glad to hear it. That at once got rid of what was most objectionable in these measures. The Committee upstairs ought also to have power to call for persons, papers, and records, and to take evidence. This Bill was one which must carry with it the good temper of the country, for the comfort and happiness of all were connected.
 LORD SEYMOUR said, he was glad to hear that the troops under the gallant Colonel performed their evolutions so well at Chobham, but he wished to call the attention of the House to what he really did say on the occasion referred to, because the question was one of great importance, and one which affected not only the Household Brigade, on whom he made no personal attack, but also the other regiments of cavalry. There were three regiments of the Household Brigade, with about 400 horses to each regiment. Now, what he said was, that one effective regiment would be much better than three ineffective regiments, and could be maintained at a much less cost to the public. At present we had the maximum of expense with the minimum of efficiency—officers for three regiments and men for only one. This remark applied not merely to the Household Brigade, but to all the other cavalry regiments. It was said that these regiments must be considered a nucleus, and that as soon as war occurred they would be filled up. But that had not been done, and they had been sent abroad as they were. Any man acquainted with cavalry regiments abroad would say that this was an admirable system for patronage at the Horse Guards, and for expense; but it was certainly not a good system, so far as regarded efficiency. He never doubted the efficiency of the regiments alluded to at Waterloo, and he had no doubt if they were taken from this country fresh they would overthrow almost any cavalry that could be brought against them; but if the gallant Colonel had looked to what occurred in the Peninsula, he would not have found that the heavy cavalry went through the service very well. If he had been aware that the question was likely to be raised, he should have been prepared to show that in the Peninsula the weight of the horses and men was considered very disadvantageous in many respects. His object had merely been to illustrate the system. He did not think it right to have so large a proportion of heavy cavalry, nor did he consider it right to have three regiments of the Household Brigade when one could be made more effective and maintained at a
 1725
 COLONEL KNOX said, he understood that men might be enlisted, under the operation of the Bill before them, for three years. He should suggest that that period should be extended to five years. The men who would enlist under the Bill would enter the army later in life than was now the case, and a longer period of time would be requisite to make them good soldiers.
 COLONEL NORTH said, he would now beg to bring under the consideration of the House the regulations of the Royal Military College, Sandhurst, respecting the admission of orphan sons of the officers of the army, navy, and marine into that establishment. He felt assured that at a moment when this country had to mourn the loss of so many gallant officers, the House would not grudge him their indulgence while he made a brief statement upon the subject of his Motion. The Royal Military College at Sandhurst had been erected under the auspices of his Royal Highness the late Duke of York. The order for its erection was dated the 7th of May, 1808; admission to it was then, as at the present time, confined to three classes. The first class which attracted towards it the kindly solicitude of his Royal Highness had been the orphans of the subaltern officers of our army, and who had died leaving their families in pecuniary distress. Those who entered the college as members of that class were to receive here their education, board, and clothing, free of expense. The second class to whom admission had been accorded were the sons of officers who were alive, and serving in the army or navy; while the third class comprised the sons of noblemen and gentlemen who wished to enter into our military or naval services as a profession. Those regulations had, however, been since altered, and at present
 1726 l. l. l. l., l., l. l. l. 1727 l.
 COLONEL KNOX , in seconding the Motion, said, he considered it most desirable to extend to the services the boon now asked for. At present a great deal was said about the policy of raising men from the ranks, and making them officers; but if they should have the misfortune to fall in the service, how was it likely that sufficient means should be provided for the education of their children? He trusted
 1728
 COLONEL NORTH said, that under those circumstances he would withdraw the Resolutions. withdrawn.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT said, he trusted that the inspectors who were to be appointed under this Bill would be medical men. He cordially agreed to the compen-
 1718
 MR. NEWDEGATE said, he trusted that the Committee would be so selected as to be a fair representation of the House. He recognised the valuable principle of local self-government which pervaded the Public Health Bill, but he thought the powers which it proposed to confer on the quarter sessions were so large and extensive, that they would require the most careful consideration of the Committee, to see that they did not trench upon those rights which it was the duty of the House to preserve. According to the plan proposed, the owners of property, from the limited time of notice, would frequently be unable to attend, and the working of the
 1719
 MR. SPEAKER said, that there was an irregularity in the Resolutions, which prevented him from putting them to the House. No charge on the revenue could be voted except in Committee of the whole House, and therefore he was precluded from putting the Resolutions.
 COLONEL FORESTER said, he wished to take that opportunity of making a few remarks, in consequence of some observations which had fallen from the noble Lord the Member for Totness (Lord Seymour) a few nights ago, who had thought proper to make an attack on the Household Brigade. In 1853 he (Colonel Forester) was in camp at Chobham with his regiment, the Royal Horse Guards Blue, in company with the Scots Greys, the 4th Light Dragoons, and the 8th Hussars. They were encamped for six weeks, and during that time he would appeal to every military man whether the regiment which he had the honour of commanding did not go through its exercise with as much activity, with fewer falls, and fewer accidents than any other, The difference of weight between the Scots Greys and the Royal Horse Guards in full marching order was one stone and a half. The difference between the Light Cavalry and the Household Brigade was two stones. The cuirass of the Household Brigade was taken to weigh from 14 lbs. to 17 lbs. If that weight was taken off the breast of the Household Brigade, they would be brought within 5lbs. or 6lbs. of the Scots Greys. The noble Lord said the Household Cavalry, men and horses, were too large, too heavy in every way for service. Now he would take the liberty of reading an extract from  Alison's History of Europe, 1724
 MR. I. BUTT said, he thought the Bill ought to pass as a matter of course. Last year a Bill was brought in with reference to criminal procedure in England, and he then moved that several of its clauses should be extended to Ireland. Every one agreed that one of the clauses of the English Bill ought to be extended to Ireland—namely, that by which the defendant was allowed to address the jury at the close of his case. It was thought that this clause was applied to Ireland by the Bill of last Session, and he had received letters from some of his friends thanking him for this measure of improvement. However, on investigation it was discovered that the clause was not extended to Ireland, and the present Bill was intended to cure the defect and assimilate the law.
 MR. I. BUTT moved that the House go into Committee on this Bill.
 MR. WHITESIDE said, he hoped the hon. Member would not proceed with this Bill until a more comprehensive attempt were made to assimilate the law of England and Ireland.
 MR. WILSON said, he had to move that a sum not exceeding 17,183,000 l. 1722 agreed to.
 MR. WILSON said, he would now beg to move the following Resolutions—
 1. "That, towards making good the Supply granted to Her Majesty, the sum of 20,000,000 l. 2. "That, towards making good the Supply granted to Her Majesty, for the deficiency in the Grants for the Service of the year ending the 31st day of March, 1855, the sum of 1,300,000 l. agreed to.
 MR. BRADY said, he thought that to be effective the Bill should provide that the inspectors should be medical men. Several clauses would require careful consideration—particularly that one which so far interfered with private rights as to prevent any private person erecting an hospital without the consent of the board.
 MR. HENLEY said, he thought that the determination that had been taken to legislate separately for England, Scotland, and Ireland, was a step in the wrong direction. He could see no objection to the separation of the Nuisances Removal Act into two parts; but many serious objections would still remain in the Bill. It would be very inconvenient to have neighbouring towns governed by different laws; the one by local Acts, the other by a general Bill. When they considered how many were the places in which the deaths exceeded twenty-three in a thousand, he thought great numbers of those who were anxious for a popular principle of government would find a central authority coming down upon them when they little expected it. With regard to the different modes of making the districts, great improvement was wanted. He did not think that parties were sufficiently guarded from being taken in against their will. The power of voting against being taken in was no sufficient defence, for the inhabitants of a rural district were always much less numerous than those of a neighbouring town that might desire to join that district to itself. He thought, also, that the scheme of referring matters of this kind to tribunals like the quarter sessions and the justices was most objectionable. He could not conceive any tribunal less fit for the exercise of such a jurisdiction. It was a jurisdiction wholly foreign to the duties of a magistrate, whose commission of the peace never contemplated his being saddled with duties of this kind also. It was one of the objections to the House of Commons that Members could rush in at the end of a debate, and vote without having heard either one side or the other. In the same way, at the end of a trial of some days, a batch of magistrates from town would come into the court of a rural district and decide its annexation to the town by an overwhelming majority. It was also a very objectionable thing to give to districts in the country a power to repeal all local Acts; and there were many other provisions to which he could by no means assent. He thought it ought to be seen how the Bill would work before there was given so great a power as that to remove gasworks, soap-boiling works, and other establishments which might be thought to
 1717
 MR. BARROW said, he did not agree with the principles involved in these Bills, for if they were carried out they would most unjustly interfere with the rights of property. He could not consent that a principle which would establish the boldest democracy ever dreamt of should be referred to a Select Committee upstairs, without being fully discussed by the House. It was unfair that in a case of such importance to property, mere numbers should override property. He must dissent from the precedent of handing over to a Select Committee questions which dealt with the rights of property in the manner proposed by these Bills.
 MR. KEOGH said, he saw no reason why the error in question should not be rectified. He proposed to introduce a Bill next week altering in many important particulars the Act of last Session, and it would then be seen whether the alterations now proposed to be made could not be embodied in one Bill. agreed to.
 MR. MICHELL said, he objected to the powers which it was proposed to confer by the Bill, especially those which related to the owners of establishments in which the machinery was worked by water power from pools and ponds. If the right hon. Baronet would consent to a clause at a future period, which should give compensation for the ponds or pools which might be closed up by the operation of the Act, the objection would be obviated, for it was unfair to interfere with private property in this manner.
 MR. WILKINSON said, he considered that the proposed measures fairly recognised the principle of compensation. He thought that some compensation ought to be made payable by those who sought to remove what they considered nuisances to the persons whose property was injured by the removal.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS said, he approved the principle of the Bill, and gave great credit to the right hon. Baronet for the pains which he had taken, not only with this measure, but with all the matters connected with his office. He contended, however, that, in the event of some of those trades which created nuisances being done away with, ten times greater nuisances would be occasioned. Suppose every person were obliged to keep his dust in his yard, what a nuisance that would be! He would put another case. One of his constituents was extensively engaged as a market gardener. He had commenced business years ago, when there was not a house near the spot. He was now surrounded with houses, and the manure which he used for fertilising his garden was complained of as a nuisance; but if market gardens were to be abolished, what was to become of our refuse and manure? He certainly thought that persons whose business was interfered with and destroyed should be entitled to compensation, as provided under the Act of 1844.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL : All the clauses of the Buildings Bill have been struck out of these measures.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL , in moving the second reading of the Nuisances Removal and Diseases Prevention Acts Consolidation and Amendment Bill, said, that it might be well if he were to state, then, the various alterations it had been decided to make in the Bill. Previously to the introduction of the Bill he had some conversation with his right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate for Scotland about the propriety of separating the Bill and bringing in a special one for Scotland. The Lord Advocate entirely acquiesced in his proposal. Subsequently he saw the Secretary for Ireland, and that right hon. Baronet desired that there should be a separate Irish Bill also. The Bill now before the House would, therefore, apply only to England and Wales. There were two objects in the Bill. The first was that of general application, and the other had for its object provisions which could only be applied under special and peculiar circumstances. With regard to the first object of the Bill, it was thought that its provisions should apply under all circumstances whatsoever; with regard to the other provisions of the Bill, they could only be applied under peculiar circumstances, when the President of the Board of Health should obtain the sanction of the Council, under whose orders the provisions of the Bill should be enforced. If the House would allow him to take the second reading of the Bill now he would go into Committee  pro formà, 1714
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL said, he would now beg to move the second reading of this Bill. He would take that opportunity of replying to the observations which had been made by the hon. Members who had addressed the House in respect to these measures. He could assure the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr.W.Williams) he had no desire to restrict discussion, but had taken a course which would render, he thought, the Bills more open to discussion. He would accede also to the suggestion of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate), and have the Bills printed, and allow ample time for a consideration of their provisions. He was more convinced than ever, from the statements which had been made that day, that the Bills were most necessary, and that they would be most difficult to pass. It was his duty not to shrink from these difficulties, and he would bring before a Select Committee, to which he hoped the Bills would be referred, all the suggestions which had been made to him from different quarters. He had no desire whatever to interfere with existing interests more than was absolutely necessary for the welfare of the community at large, but if existing interests were not carried out for the benefit of the community, he thought it was necessary for the Legislature to interfere. He had no objection to transfer the powers for the intervention of the Board of Health when the mortality exceeded the rate of twenty-three in 1,000 to the Diseases Prevention Bill, and he thought it a most useful suggestion. A provision would be introduced to limit these powers under the Order in
 1720 1721
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL said, that in moving the second reading of this Bill he should merely say a few words, in order to recommend the measure to the consideration of the House. The principle of enlisting men for a limited period of service was not a new one. That principle had been affirmed by the House of Commons in the year 1847, when the Secretary at War of the day had proposed a Bill to authorise the Government to enlist men for a period not exceeding ten years. The present measure had for its object to legalise the enlistment of soldiers for a period less than ten years, namely, from three to five years. The necessity for introducing the Bill rested partly upon technical considerations, and partly upon considerations of general policy. It proposed to remove the stringency which existed with respect to the regulations by which men were enlisted for a term of ten years, neither more nor less, and to obtain the services of men whose age—thirty to thirty-four—rendered it probable that they could better endure the fatigues and hardships of active service than those who entered the army under the present system. It would, he was certain, be gratifying to the House to hear that the recruiting service of the country was at the present moment in a most satisfactory position. He found, from returns upon the subject, that in the year 1853, 11,545 men had joined the army. That number had, in 1854, been increased to 34,844, of which 1,942 men had volunteered from the
 1723
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL said, he understood that the men were to be enlisted for three years. The suggestion of the hon. and gallant Member might receive consideration, if it were sent back in the shape of an Amendment to the House of Lords.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL said, it must be satisfactory to the country to have obtained the valuable services of the right hon. Baronet. The Bill before the House corrected, at all events, a great number of hardships and inconveniences, which had been a fruitful source of contention in a great number of large and populous towns. But it must be by the declared and manifest consent of a majority of the ratepayers that anything could now be done. He had shortened his life by the battles he had had to fight with former Governments; and he hoped that under the administration of the right hon. Baronet all those battles would cease.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON said, he thought that great advantage would be derived from the division of the Nuisances Removal Bill into two Bills, one being applicable to permanent, the other to temporary circumstances. He quite approved of the Bills being sent before a Select Committee, but he hoped that it would not occupy such a length of time as to prevent legislation during the present Session. He was glad to find that the right hon. Baronet's (Sir B. Hall's) experience of his office had taught him the necessity of adopting a number of the principles and plans of his much calumniated predecessors. With regard to the Public Health Bill, while approving of many of its provisions, he lamented the introduction of one or two enactments which were new, and which appeared to him to be rather of a retrograde character. He also objected to the principle of a majority of temporary inhabitants entirely excluding permanent owners of property from any voice in the arrangements under the Bill. Questions of this sort seemed to require more careful consideration than appeared to have been given to them in the Bill as it stood. He likewise objected to the machinery provided for voting, which seemed to him to be also of a retrograde character, and calculated to consult rather the convenience of the few than of the many, and which would practically disfranchise thousands of voters. He hoped evidence, however, would be taken on these points.
 MR. A. STAFFORD  said, he wished to draw the attention of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for War to a paper which had been sent to him. It was headed—"Quinine for the Sick and Wounded Soldiers in the Crimea," and it went on to say—
 "This invaluable restorative, so essential to the sick and wounded, is much needed in the Crimea at this moment. Subscriptions are therefore earnestly requested for the purpose of providing this medicine, and care will be taken to ensure its immediate delivery to the officers commanding regiments in the Crimea." 1736
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he wished to know whether he was to understand that the noble Lord at the head of the Government intended to make a statement before the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield was brought on?
 MR. DISRAELI : I merely, Sir, wish
 1734
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he wished to ask the First Lord of the Treasury whether Mr. Rankin, a member of the Canadian Parliament, had made an offer to Her Majesty to raise and equip 1,000 men to join the army in the East, and, if so, what answer had been given him; and whether Her Majesty had offered commissions to colonists who raise regiments at their own expense; and, also, whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to propose that any grateful acknowledgment should be made on the part of Parliament of the sympathy and patriotism evinced by various colonies in voting large sums of money towards the expenses of the present war?
 MR. WARNER  said, he begged to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, whether the Commission proceeding to the East, in relation to the Commissariat service, was to be merely a Commission of inquiry, or whether it will have power of summary dismissal and appointment extending to all officers and appointments to which its power of inquiry extends; and, if it shall appear that the Commission will have powers of appointment and dismissal subject to any kind of restrictions, what those restrictions are?
 MR. GOULBURN  said, it had been his duty some time since to see great quantities of quinine and other medical stores placed, in waggons, on board ship for the Crimea.
 MR. WILSON  said, for the convenience of the House it was thought desirable that the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) should take precedence of the Orders of the Day to-morrow, and he had been required by the noble Lord at the head of the Government to move that the Orders of the Day for to-morrow be postponed till after all Notices of Motion, in order that the Motion for the nomination of a Select Committee to inquire into the state of the army before Sebastopol might be brought on at an early period of the evening.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he had a question on the paper, to be addressed to the Secretary of State for the Home Department; but as he did not know who the Secretary of State for the Home Department might be at present, he would postpone his question to a future day.
 MR. MAGUIRE  then said, he must make a short statement, in order to render his question intelligible, and the answer to it satisfactory. He wished to refer to a
 1731 "To ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether his notice had been called to certain statements reported to have been made in his official capacity, by Mr. Hardwicke, a police magistrate of the metropolis, in the course of last week, to the effect that shiploads of Irish paupers were being constantly sent by the authorities of Ireland to this country; and, if so, has any step been taken with respect to a person holding a responsible public office making such statements?"
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he then must beg the right hon. Gentleman to make inquiry into the matter.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he wished to make an inquiry of the hon. Under Secretary of War or the Secretary for War,—he did not know the precise office which the hon. Gentleman filled—and if he could not give any explanation, he would ask the First Minister of the Crown a question with reference to what had been stated in another place when this Bill was under discussion. He found it was reported that in reference to the recruiting for the army, the Minister of War made use of these words—
 "The attention of Government has been much directed, my Lords, to the recruiting of the army, and there can be no question that means must be found—if not gentle, then they must be found by compulsion—for recruiting the ranks of Her Majesty's service in order to enable this war to be carried on with vigour."
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he did not presume to impute that it was intended such should be the meaning of the words. The Minister of War was reported in all the public papers to have used the word "compulsion."
 MR. BERESFORD  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of the War Department, whether, as reports generally concur in the statement that the quality of the food supplied to the army in the East was bad and injurious, that the tents issued were inefficient for the necessary shelter of the troops from the exposure to which they were subjected, and that the hospital arrangements, especially as to the corps of ambulance and orderlies, were lamentably deficient, any suggestions were made, as they ought to have been, by the principal medical officer there, to Lord Raglan, commanding the forces, or by the Director General at home to the Secretary for War, and, if any, whether the Secretary for War will produce copies of the suggestions, with the date of their receipt, and the answers returned to them?
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL,  in reply, said, that the Government were not in posses-
 1732
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, the only answer he could give to the question of the hon. Gentleman was, that he would make inquiry upon the subject. It was not within his knowledge that there was any deficiency in the medical stores supplied to the hospitals. He could only say that a most ample Vote had been taken for medical and other stores, and it would be his duty to see that that Vote was well and properly applied.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that if any report were made to the Home Office with respect to the conduct of any magistrate, inquiry should be made into the circumstances, but he did not think it would be fair to call any magistrate to account for chance statements made in newspapers.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, his attention had not been called to any statement of that kind, and except from what the hon. Gentleman had said, he had no reason to believe that any such circumstance had happened.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he trusted he could answer the question of the hon. Gentleman.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that if stringent means were necessary to replenish the ranks of the army, those stringent means would entirely consist of an increase of bounty. As to the militia, the Government had power by law to resort to the ballot, but he should be extremely unwilling to have recourse to it, because the militia had had its ranks filled by voluntary enlistment to a most satisfactory degree, and those men who had entered had conducted themselves in so admirable and exemplary a manner that he should not willingly resort to anything which would in any degree weaken that voluntary enlistment which had been so generously and nobly displayed by the people of this country. He was sure the words quoted never were uttered by his noble Friend as relating to the army, and that he could only have said, if the militia should fail by voluntary enlistment, it might be necessary, in certain eventualities, to have recourse to the ballot.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that the Commission would have power to alter any arrangements they might think calculated to be effective, and to make reports both to the Commander of the Forces there and to the Government at home, with a view to any personal arrangement also. But they would have authority to carry into execution immediately any change or arrangements they might think essential to the public service.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he had
 1733
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I have to state to the House that which I think is pretty well known already, that three Members of Her Majesty's Government have intimated their intention to resign the offices they have hitherto held—I mean the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the First Lord of the Admiralty, and the Secretary of State for the Colonial Department. Those officers hold their offices at present only until their successors shall be appointed. Under these circumstances, and considering that those officers are three Members of the Government in this House, I trust the House will not think I am unduly pressing upon their indulgence if I propose that we should not enter into any public business to-day; but only to carry through those Orders of the day which may stand on the paper, to which no objections are made, and that this House should adjourn till to-morrow. To-morrow my right hon. Friends will attend in their places, and will state to the House the grounds upon which they have taken the decision to resign, which I have announced; and I therefore propose that the House at its rising adjourn till to-morrow.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he thought it was very desirable that the explanations of the right hon. Gentlemen who had recently withdrawn from the Government should take place, and a decision on the Motion for the nomination of the Committee to inquire into the state of the army before Sebastopol be come to before the House went into Committee on the Army Estimates. With that view, his hon. Friend (Mr. Wilson) had moved that the Notices of Motion should take precedence
 1737
 LORD SEYMOUR said, he was anxious to state, as his name appeared in the list of the proposed Committee, that he had originally voted against this Committee, and that he was still of opinion that an inquiry at the present time would be fraught with great inconvenience to the public service. It would be injurious to the army in the Crimea, it would be embarrassing in regard to those preparations that ought to be made for the next campaign, and it would not be without danger as connected with our noble allies the French. But he understood that the Government had acceded to an inquiry;
and
 1778 1779
 GENERAL PEEL said, the House was kind enough, upon a late occasion, to give him the opportunity of expressing his opinion upon the danger of appointing the Committee to inquire into the working of the departments, or into the conduct of those engaged in the Crimea. His name had now been placed upon the Committee; but he must say that he still felt, as he felt then, that the result of the inquiry must be valueless, if not absolutely injurious. If, in entertaining those opinions, it was considered that he could be of any use to that Committee, he was willing to work to the best of his ability, and to assist it in realising the expectations of the country—an object which could be obtained only by the strictest impartiality, and by being conducted by gentlemen who would not shrink from full inquiry, and at the same time would not condemn any without giving them the opportunity of defending themselves. He wished to say one word more, as to a word which he was reported to have used upon a late occasion, but which he should consider as of great importance if falling from the lips of any Englishman. He was reported to have said that "he was not at all surprised at the 'despondency' expressed throughout the country at the state of our army in the East." What he said, or what he intended to say, was, "The 'indignation' expressed by the country." He did not think that there was any despondency on the part of the country; it was a feeling which he, for one, never entertained for a single moment; and though we might have horrors and distress to face at the beginning, he never desponded at effecting any object which the English people took upon themselves to accomplish.
 MR. GLADSTONE : It is impossible, Sir, to magnify the importance of the public question which the House on this occasion has before it; if we take no account of the minor consideration that three persons who have recently stood, under arduous circumstances, in the position of responsible advisers of the Crown, and have felt themselves compelled by an imperative sense of public duty to separate from their colleagues, all of whom they esteemed, and with whom they agreed, in respect to public affairs, are desirous to submit a statement of their motives for having so separated from them. It can be but rarely that the patience of this House can be so severely taxed by a series of personal explanations; and, for my own part, I could have been glad, agreeing as I do in every particular with the observations and statements made by both my right hon. Friends who have already addressed the House, simply to adopt and to be judged by those statements which they have so made, were it not that the question which led to our resignation is one of deep political and constitutional importance, and that our individual fates—in themselves wholly insignificant—are mixed up inextricably with matters of the greatest interest to the nation. As far as I myself am concerned, Sir, perhaps I may be permitted, without leading the House too far back—inasmuch as we are (it has been justly so observed) in something like a chronic state of Ministerial crisis, and inasmuch as it is difficult to separate the events of the last few days from those which preceded them within a very short period—to allude in one or two sentences to the first series of events in this crisis, and to the position in which my own name has appeared before the public in connection with the early stage of the proceedings. Sir, in that early stage, when Lord Derby received a commission from the Crown to form a Government, an offer was made by the noble Earl to my right hon. Friend the Member for South Wiltshire and myself, together with the noble Lord now First Lord of the Treasury, to take office
 1821 1822 "Downing Street, Jan. 31, 1855. "My dear Lord Derby—Lord Palmerston has communicated to me the wish you have been so good as to express, that, in common with him and with Mr. Sidney Herbert, I should become part of the Administration which you have been charged by the Queen to form. I also learn from him that he is not of opinion that he could himself render you useful service in that Administration, but that he would have every disposition to give you the best support in his power, and he has Just left me with the announcement of his intention to write to you an answer to this effect." "I think it only remains to me to reply in similar terms. Any Government, owing its origin to the late vote of the House of Commons, and honestly endeavouring to do its duty, must have peculiar claims to support in connection with the great national interests involved in the question of war and peace. On public grounds I am disposed to believe that the formation of a Government from among your own political connections would offer many facilities at this moment, which other alternatives within view would not present; and, unless when my opinions might not leave me a choice, it would be my sincere desire to offer to an Administration, so constructed under you, an independent Parliamentary support." 1823 1824 1825 1826 1827 1828 1829 1830 1831 1832 1833 1834 1835 1836 1837 1838 1839 1840 1841 [Laughter.] 1842 1843 1844 1845 1846
 MR. GLADSTONE : I rise, Sir, to explain one or two points referred to in the speech of the right hon. Gentleman
 1860
 MR. CORRY said, he begged to explain to the House the reasons why he wished to substitute the name of Captain Scobell for that of Mr. Bramston. He thought it desirable that some hon. Member connected with the navy ought to be on the Committee, as the conduct of branches of the naval department was called into question.
 MR. BENTINCK gave notice that on Monday he would move the insertion of the name of Sir George Tyler in the place of that of Mr. John Ball. He thought it highly requisite that upon a Committee of this nature there should be at least one naval officer.
 MR. MILES said, he was confident that Lord Raglan's character would be perfectly safe with the Committee as proposed by the hon. and learned Gentleman. He trusted the Committee would strictly investigate the conduct of the civil departments, for these were the departments which had more failed than any other.
 MR. F. SCOTT said, the hon. Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe) had given to the House an account of the arduous duties which would devolve upon the War Office if the Committee were granted; he stated that the load of duty which fell upon that office was quite sufficient, without its being called upon to inquire into the causes which had led to those occur-
 1785 1786 bonâ fide bonâ fide 1787
 MR. STUART WORTLEY said, he could assure the House that if this were a mere party question he should feel that his position in that House would prevent his taking any part in it; but as he but seldom obtruded his opinion upon the House he trusted that he should be excused if he asked to be allowed to give expression to the strong feelings which pervaded his mind. He had voted against this inquiry, with the full persuasion that it was a most unconstitutional proposition, and that it would eventuate in no good to the country. But if he had entertained that opinion at the time when he gave that
 1808 1809 1810 1811
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : I trust, Sir, that in the peculiar situation in which I at present stand, the House will grant me their indulgence while I endeavour to explain the reasons which have actuated me in the course I have taken, of seceding from the Government of the noble Lord; and in making those explanations I will be as brief as I can, first, because the greater portion of what I might have had to state has been anticipated by my right hon. Friend (Sir J. Graham), and partly on account of physical inability to address the House at any great length at the present moment. 1763 1764 1765 "In undertaking, however, the task which Her Majesty has confided to our care, it would be useless to dissemble the difficulty which meets us and stares us in the face—namely, that difficulty which arises from the notice of Motion which my hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Roebuck) has given for Thursday next. I will not attempt to disguise that I feel the same objection to the appointment of the Committee of which he has given notice as Iliad the honour to express when the subject was first under discussion. My opinion is that such a Committee would in its action not be in accordance with the true and just principles of the constitution, and that it would not be, for the effectual accomplishment of its purpose, a sufficient instrument."—[See p. 1424.] 1766 1767 1768 1769 1770 1771 1772
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I am quite sure that the noble Lord is correct in the anticipation that any existing Government at the present emergency will receive a liberal and candid support from this House. But it would have been satisfactory to the House, this being the conclusion of the week, if the noble Lord could have found it convenient to assure the House and the country that a Government was really in existence. The noble Lord has omitted in his speech to answer the arguments of the right hon. Baronet the late First Lord of the Admiralty, and the right hon. Gentleman the late Chancellor of the Exchequer, against granting this Committee; but the noble Lord has also made an omission almost as singular, for the noble Lord Lord appears to have forgot that which we thought we were all collected together today specially to hear from the noble Lord—namely, that he, at least, had been successful in forming an Administration. If that be the case, as all the House had hoped, I think there is some want of courtesy in the leader of the House of Commons permitting us to adjourn this evening without having that gratifying information made known to us and the country. But instead of this the noble Lord says—" So long as we possess the confidence of the House and the country, we intend to do our duty to Her Majesty, and to retain our places." But what we want to know is, who are "we"? The moment, no doubt, is one of great national peril. The emergency is granted by all. We are ready to extend to a Government, with a less reference to party feeling than at any other time, a just and generous support. But it does not appear to me to be a severe
 1852 1853 1854 1855 1856 1857 1858 1859
 MR. SPEAKER then put the names of the proposed Committee  seriatim.
 MR. MUNTZ said, that it was an old saying, that it was better late than never. The noble Lord had shared the fate of all those who tried to please everybody—he had pleased nobody. If in the first instance he had agreed to the Committee, and then, finding a difficulty, had thrown himself on the confidence of the country, he would have been supported. But he did not rise for that. He rose to object to the talk about precedents. Precedents! Why, was there a precedent of such an army having suffered so much in so short a space of time? He voted for a censure on the Government, and also for an inquiry. He wished for inquiry, because he thought it requisite—not an inquiry into what is going on now, but an inquiry into the past. Then there was another question—what would the army itself think if the House of Commons had voted an inquiry into their dreadful condition, and then no inquiry took place? Hon. Members said there were difficulties connected with the inquiry. Were there no difficulties connected with no inquiry? With regard to the Government of the noble Lord, he would say the same he had said of all Governments—that so long as he believed it was promoting the interest and honour of the country he would support it.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL said, the present Amendment was made without his knowledge or concurrence in the first instance, and he felt no desire to serve upon it. At the same time, he thought a naval officer ought to be put upon it, as the conduct of the transport service was in question.
 MR. GRANVILLE VERNON thought that if anything could have added to the strength of the arguments adduced by the late First Lord of the Admiralty and Secretary for the Colonies, it would have been the speeches delivered by three of the future Members of the proposed Commit-
 1788 1789 1790
 MR. DRUMMOND said, that, great as were the difficulties with which he had to contend in comprehending the proceedings of that House, there was one which peculiarly pressed upon his mind, and that was, that he was not quite sure in what language it was that the House spoke. He had hitherto believed that they were in the habit of speaking in a dialect of the English language; but when he was told, after he had in the honest simplicity of his mind been voting, as he thought, for inquiry, that he did not mean by that vote any such thing as inquiry, but that he really meant a want of confidence in somebody, he confessed he was totally at a loss how to proceed. But even if he admitted the translation of his vote into that sense, still he hardly knew the meaning of it, or what the words "want of confidence" meant. He had full confidence in the right hon. Gentleman the late Chancellor of the Exchequer, that he would not rob the till, but was he to be supposed to mean by that that he should have confidence in the right
 1775 Gazettes "No pitying heart, no eye t' afford One tear to grace their obsequies." Hansard, 1776 High Life below Stairs, Low Life above Stairs. 1777
 MR. MILNES GASKELL said, he had listened to the speech of his right hon. Friend who had just sat down (Mr. Sidney Herbert), and to that of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle (Sir J. Graham), with feelings of very great sur-
 1773 1774
 MR. M'CANN said, he thought the country would be very much disappointed if no naval officer were appointed on the Committee. He had heard of the nomination of Captain Scobell with great satisfaction.
 1868
 MR. BRIGHT : I am one of those forming the majority of the House, I suspect, who are disposed to look upon our present position as one of more than ordinary gravity. I am one, also, of those, not probably constituting so great a majority of the House, who regret extremely the circumstances which have obliged the right hon. Gentlemen who are now upon this bench to secede from the Government of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton. I do not take upon me for a moment to condemn them; because I think, if there be anything in which a man must judge for himself, it is whether he should take office if it be offered to him, whether he should secede from office, whether he should secede under a particular leader, or engage in the service of the Crown, or retain office in a particular emergency. In such cases I think that the decision must be left to his own conscience and his own judgment; and I should be the last person to condemn any one for the decision
 1756 1757 1758 and cries of 1759 and 1760 1761 1762
 MR. ROEBUCK : It is not my intention, Sir, to move any instructions to this Committee, for I think the words of my Motion do limit the inquiry of that Committee. The words are that they should
 "Inquire into the condition of our army before Sebastopol, and into the conduct of those departments of the Government whose duty it has been to minister to the wants of that army." 1867
 MR. ROEBUCK said, he thought the proposal arose out of a misconception. The Committee could examine naval witnesses, and be able to appreciate the evidence.
 MR. ROEBUCK said, this was the first time he ever heard that a member of the jury ought to be a relation of the prisoner in the dock.
 MR. NAPIER said, he had been sorry to hear the expressions which had just fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Roebuck). He (Mr. Napier) never knew an instance of a person being put in the dock without a bill of indictment having been first found against him.
 MR. LOWE said, that, after the speech they had just heard from, he might presume, the intended Chairman of their Committee, he hoped the House would permit even so insignificant a person as himself to offer the reasons which weighed strongly in his mind against proceeding
 1780 1781 salus populi suprema lex 1782 1783 1784
 MR. LAING said, that the prolonged Ministerial crisis now threatened such serious national misfortunes that it behoved the Government and its supporters to come to a mutual understanding; and for this purpose it was necessary that expression should be given to the sentiments of hon. Gentlemen of different shades of opinion on the Ministerial side of the House. The late Secretary of State for the Colonies had told them that the Government had not enjoyed the confidence of a large proportion of those who sat upon its own side; but he (Mr. Laing) could state for
 1792 1793 1794 Gazette 1795 1796 1797
 MR. WALPOLE : I have listened, Sir, with extreme surprise to the observations made by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle (Sir James Graham), and also to those of the right hon. Member for South Wiltshire (Mr. S. Herbert) on the constitutional rights, privileges, and duties of Members of this House—observations more extraordinary than any I ever heard from statesmen of authority. The
 1812 1813 1814 1815 "That it be referred to a Committee to inquire into the causes of the want of success of His Majesty's military and naval forces during this war, and more particularly in the year 1781." 1816 "That a Committee be appointed to inquire into the circumstances and results of the late campaign in the Peninsula." 1817 1818 1819 1820
 MR. WALPOLE said, he trusted that, as it was decided to have a Committee, hon. Members would see the propriety of not having continued and protracted discussion. The question had been fully and most ably discussed on both sides. He believed he was right in saying that, according to the forms and rules of the House, when a Committee was appointed to inquire into a subject, it was not in the power of that Committee, without the express instructions of the House, to inquire into any matters of a subsequent date to the time when it was appointed.
 MR. WALPOLE said, he would appeal to his right hon. Friend (Mr. Corry) not to press his Motion. It was desirable to have the unanimous consent of the House to the appointment of the Committee. There were now eleven Members; there might be a twelfth appointed upon a future stage if it was considered desirable to have a naval man upon the Committee.
 MR. BERESFORD said, he would also give notice that on Monday he should move to add the name of Mr. Miles to the Committee. He thought it only fair that, as Lord Raglan had no one in the Committee to stand forth and take his part, some Gentleman should be appointed to attend the Committee and defend his character. Mr. Miles was connected by marriage with Lord Raglan, and was, therefore, the most proper person to represent his interest.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, the explanation which has just been given by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) has relieved me to a great extent of the indispensable necessity of correcting the repeated statements in the speech of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) upon assumptions without any evidence that my noble Friend (Lord Palmerston) formed his Government on the basis of resisting this Committee. Having, as a Member of
 1861 1862 1863 1864
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY said, he did not see any disadvantage that could result from the appointment of the Committee, if it were to confine its labours to an inquiry into the conduct of those departments in this country whose business it was to supply the wants of the army. But he felt persuaded that any attempt on the part of the Committee to enter into military matters in the Crimea would be productive of the most fatal consequences to the public service.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Mr. Speaker, according to established usage and in conformity with a salutary practice, having ceased to be one of the confidential servants of the Crown, and now only holding office until my successor is appointed, I think it a duty incumbent upon me, with the permission of the House, to state the reasons which have induced me to take the step to which I have alluded. And, Sir, I have thought it best to avail myself of the opportunity when you have a Motion in your hands, to tender this explanation; because I am afraid it will be necessary for me to trespass for a short time upon the indulgence of the House, and in setting forth the reasons which have actuated me I may be driven to make some statements and use some arguments that may require reply; and, on the whole, this appeared to me the fairest and best opportunity for the purpose. I am more disposed to take this course because, having recently suffered from very severe illness, from which I am only imperfectly recovered, I was unequal to the task of attending in my place on the occasion when my hon. Friend below me (Mr. Roebuck) moved for the appointment of a Committee of Inquiry, which Committee the House is now about to nominate. I did not take part in the debate which preceded the division on that Motion, and I was unable to record my vote on that occasion. I hope, therefore, I may crave the indulgence of the House while I enter into some of the reasons which have led me to think that the further prosecution of the inquiry by the Select Committee is, in the present circumstances of the country, inexpedient. 1744 1745 1746 1747 1748 1749 1750 1751 1752 1753 1754 1755
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : The present state of public affairs appears to me
 1798 1799 1800 1801 "With respect to the Irish militia, it was not the intention of the Government during the present year to organise or enrol the Irish militia. It was not desirable to incur any large expense if the public service did not require it. What might be done in another year was a matter for future consideration."—[3  Hansard, 1802 1803 1804 1805 1806 1807 coup de main,
 MR. PALK said, he had heard that night for the first time that those who retained office were deserters, and those who quitted it were faithful; but, in his opinion, on the contrary, those who, under difficult circumstances, remained at their posts were faithful, and those who quitted them were the real deserters. He trusted that the result of that night's debate would be to clear the eyes of the country of some of the dust with which recent events had blinded them. It was now ascertained that the present Government had been formed to "burke" that inquiry which the all bat unanimous Resolution of that House, ratified by the universal voice of the country, imperatively demanded. The popular cry brought the noble Lord into power, not simply because of his great
 1791
 MR. ROBERT PHILLIMORE said, he would submit that the House ought not to proceed further in the nomination of the Committee at that late hour, especially as no two Members who had spoken in defence of it had expressed the same opinion with regard to it, or had agreed as to whether it was to be confined to the past or to enter into the future; no one yet knew whether it was to be a gross fraud, a delusion, or a full and searching inquiry, such as had
 1865
 SIR THOMAS ACLAND said, that although feeling a very strong objection to the appointment of the Committee, still he would not be a party to any further prolongation of the difficulties in which he considered the House, the Government, and the country were placed, in consequence of the vote of that House.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON said, it was not his intention to propose any limitation to the inquiries of the Committee. It appeared to him that the first and main object to be attained was to appoint a Committee consisting of Gentlemen in whose discretion and judgment the House might repose confidence. He thought the selection which had been made was a selection which entitled the Committee to the confidence of the House. He thought the names perfectly unobjectionable. He for one was prepared to repose in those Gentlemen sufficient confidence. He thought that in the pursuit of their inquiry they would not travel into those delicate and dangerous topics which had been adverted to in the course of the debate. It did not appear to him to be impossible for them to pursue inquiries with regard to the condition of the army in the Crimea without travelling into those questions which would
 1866
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Mr. Speaker, my right hon. Friends have this evening explained to the House the grounds on which they have separated themselves from Her Majesty's Government. I shall not venture a single word of criticism on the course which they have thought it their duty to pursue—being convinced as I am that they have acted from a sincere conviction that their duty points to the path which they have pursued, and that by so doing they have not only in the best manner given effect to their own opinions, but have performed what they think to be their duty to their country. I feel the greatest regret at having lost the assistance of my right hon. Friends, with whom it has been my good fortune to act during the last two years, and of whom I can say with perfect truth, that which they themselves have said of those whom they have left, that there prevailed among us the most cordial confidence, and upon the great questions which are now pending, in action or in decision, that there was among us no difference of opinion upon any great principle of policy which Government considered it their duty to pursue. Sir, on the other hand, I must say that at the time when it was Her Majesty's pleasure to command me to endeavour to form a Government, it was impossible that either I or those with whom I was about to act could shut their eyes to the fact that there was this Committee, which the House had determined should sit, and the appointments to which we must be prepared to meet. I had stated upon a former occasion the objections which I entertained to the course which the House by a large majority had determined nevertheless to pursue. Those objections to a certain degree still prevail; but when I had to consider what was the real nature of the course which this House had followed, it was impossible not to see that when this question was originally proposed, the great majority which supported this Motion of my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Sheffield supported it on two separate and distinct grounds. A large portion of the hon. Members who affirmed the Resolution did so because they thought inquiry
 1847 1848 1849 1850 1851
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON said, he hoped the House would abide by the list as it stood. The Committee was not going to inquire into seamanship, but into the management of public departments.
 COLONEL HARCOURT  said, he begged to ask the Under Secretary for War whether any of the offers said to have been made to the Government by the London or other hospitals to receive a certain number of the sick and wounded, who had come home from the Crimea, had been accepted; or whether the Government had themselves provided the necessary accommodation, and whether they had made, or were making, arrangements for the fit reception and treatment of those who might hereafter arrive from that quarter?
 COLONEL KNOX : Who is now responsible for the clothing of the army?
 COLONEL KNOX : But what department of the Government?
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he could not, when they were called upon to go into Committee of Supply to vote money for carrying on the war, avoid making a few remarks upon the subject of these estimates, and to protest against granting these large sums for the army while the present defective system was continued. If the House would permit him, he would endeavour to explain the system which prevailed in France, which he had had an opportunity of observing while there a few days ago. When he was in Paris he had the honour of an interview of the French Minister at War. He found him a plain man, easily accessible, and when he called upon him in the midst of the business of his office—which business he appeared thoroughly to understand—on one side of his room there was a map of Europe hung up, upon which were a number of patches of blue, white, red, green, and other colours. He (Mr. Lindsay) inquired what these meant. The reply of the Minister was that they represented the different armies of Europe. One colour represented the French, another the English, a third the Austrian, a fourth the Russian, a fifth the Turkish, and so on; and the positions in which they stood upon the map, pointed out their respective stations. Every morning, the Minister added, these coloured patches are removed by means of a pin from one place to another, according as I receive advices from abroad as to any movement made by either of the armies. He (Mr. Lindsay) then asked whether the Government had information as to the quantity of stores at the different depôts in connection with the Crimean army? The Minister at once replied by informing him of the quantity at Marseilles, at Constantinople, at the Crimea, and the amount which was being sent to Sinope. He thought it somewhat extraordinary that this French Minister of War should know everything, and be able to answer at once upon all these matters of detail connected with his department; while if he asked a similar question of any Minister here no information could be ob-
 1892 1893 l. l. 1894 l. l. l. 1895
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, he should have thought that, after the explanation of his right hon. Friend the late First Lord of the Admiralty, the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and that of the hon. Member for Tynemouth (Mr. Lindsay), would have been unnecessary. It had been inferred that the whole amount of tonnage employed by the Government had been employed for the service of 25,000 men, but to that he was prepared to give a direct contradiction. The tonnage employed by the Government had not been employed solely in the service of the English army, but in the service of the French and Turkish as well, and, instead of their being employed in the service of 25,000 men, they were employed in the service of almost 100,000. Those two hon. Members had praised the management of Captain Milne; but, at the same time, both appeared to him to complain of there having been egregious blunders. Now, he could only say that he was ready to share the responsibility of any error which had been committed by the Board of which he was a member.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that the Government were now about to form a transport corps, which undoubtedly was very necessary, but why, he would ask, was it not done when the army went out, instead of being left until the army was nearly exhausted? It was the Commissariat who were responsible for the transport, as well as for the provisioning of the army, and he believed that to the neglect of that department, not only abroad, but in the Treasury, where it was till lately administered, the losses of that army were chiefly to be attributed. In the Spanish war there were several departments established for the transport of the army, baggage, and reserve, and the minutest details were laid down by Sir George Murray, which might have taught the men who had to conduct the present war how to conduct it properly. But it was not until now, when we had lost one-half of the army, that they applied themselves to form a transport service. He felt confident, however, that under Colonel M'Murdo that transport service would be made complete as soon as could be anticipated. He did not believe the general officers deserved all the blame that was cast upon them. As for Sir John Burgoyne, there was not a more capable and efficient officer in Europe, and he did not think anything would be gained by exchanging him for General Jones, although this latter was also an excellent officer. He contended that the great fault
 1903 état major Gazette, 1904
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he thought it would have been fairer towards the army and the officers of the 26th Regiment if the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams) had made certain that there was any foundation for the report which he had read from some public newspaper. The other evening the hon. Member had favoured them with an opinion of the soldierly appearance of the Guards, and expressed his pleasure at observing their uniforms were changed from brickdust colour to scarlet. He could not tell where the hon. Member's eyes had been, but for the last twenty or thirty years the Guards had always worn scarlet. He quite agreed that scarlet was infinitely superior to brickdust colour, and, if the hon. Member and his Friends would support him, he (Col. North) would be happy to move that the whole British army should be clothed in scarlet. As an old soldier, nothing was more painful to him than to see the sentries pf the Guards at the present moment. He did not wish to say one word detrimental to the young soldiers now in the uniform of Her Majesty's Guards, and he had no doubt with time, discipline, and drill, they would make gallant troops; but where were the splendid specimens of the manhood of England whom they saw last year at the corners of every street, who, with their Herculean frames, soldierly appearance, gallant demeanour, and devotion to their Sovereign, were the pride of the country? It was a perfect farce now to boast of the appearance of the Guards. The hon. Member for Lambeth came down to the House stating facts with reference to the army that showed his ignorance of the subject, and before he talked of the Guards or of the army he ought to make himself better acquainted with them.
 COLONEL KNOX  said, with reference to the countermanding of the battalion of Guards, he believed that the colonel had given orders without consulting the Commander in Chief. He believed that there were not enough of Minié rifles to supply the whole of the battalion, and it was therefore recommended to send them out in drafts. With regard to the offence of these two men, he considered it a most grievous one. Here were men making use of the ammunition given them for the public service, and firing in the midst of a crowded barracks. He never heard of such a thing in his life, and he thought that the punishment was a proper and a salutary one. He would suggest to the hon. Member for Lambeth whether it was very judicious to be reading  ex parte
 COLONEL KNOX  said, he wished to call the attention of the Secretary at War to the inadequate allowance made to the officer in command of the South-Western district. It was known that an immense number of foreigners of distinction annually went down to visit the dockyards at Portsmouth, to whom every hospitality was naturally shown, and in the course of their visit they were generally shown over the garrison. The general officer commanding there was expected to keep up his station, although he possessed no other means whatever than his allowance from the Government. No less than four general officers under whom he had himself served had been placed in that situation; and he believed that one officer had left his appointment because he had been so much injured in his pecuniary resources by the demands made upon him. Now, he contended that no officer holding such a position ought to suffer any pecuniary loss.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he was anxious to hear whether any extra pay or gratuity had been given to the Gentlemen employed in the War Department, in consequence of the additional work they had been called on to perform since the outbreak of the war. Many of them, as he was informed, were kept at work from nine o'clock in the morning until eight or nine at night; and surely it might be expected that in a country like England public servants would be compensated for the additional demands made upon their labours.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he was sorry that, owing to an informality, he could not the other day bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice. He did not now rise to offer any opposition to the Vote. He hoped, however, that the resolution which he had intended to propose would be considered by Her Majesty's Government, as it was quite evident, owing to the great increase of officers by the recent promotion from the ranks, that there must be a proportionate increase of clerks in the War Department. It was his intention shortly to bring this subject under the consideration of the House.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that the sum demanded for children was in proportion
 1934 l.,
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that what he complained of was that for several years the system of selecting the officers of the staff was not that of taking them from those that bad qualified themselves at Sandhurst. He said that the system hitherto pursued had tended to discourage officers from learning their duty. At Sandhurst an officer did not learn all that it was necessary for a staff officer to know; but he learned what was essential for him to know—the knowledge of surveying, of sketching, and of fortifications, which was not generally taught in other schools. He thought the suggestions of the hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon (General Peel) most valuable.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he was perfectly satisfied that it had the same claim, for there were as many Irish as there were English soldiers' orphans.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wanted to know what were the intentions of the Government as to the embodiment of the Irish militia? At this moment hardly any of the Irish militia regiments, though fully drilled, had arms, and he would suggest that the arms of the pensioners, who were only called out twice or three times a year for a day or two's drill, should be given to the militia when not in use by the pensioners. There were many regiments of Irish militia not yet embodied, and unless they were so, no recruits would be obtained from that source.
 COLONEL KNOX  said, that the transmission of pay from our soldiers in the Crimea to their relatives in this country was a subject with respect to which a considerable amount of dissatisfaction prevailed. It was alleged that the applicants for money so transmitted had in many instances been informed by the authorities here that they knew nothing whatever about it. The answer which they almost invariably received at the War Office was, "We are extremely sorry that we cannot give you any information about your money, but we have had no account upon the matter from the Paymaster of the forces." Now, it was highly desirable that habits of frugality upon the part of the soldier should receive every encouragement, but nothing could tend more to prevent the acquisition of such habits than the fact that there was no security afforded him that he could transmit his pay with safety and regularity to his family at home. There was also another subject to which he wished to call the attention of the Government—it was in reference to the system of hospital service in the East. The general system was, that when the soldier went into hospital, the sergeant entered a description of the man, his name, that of his native parish, &c.; and also took an account of the amount of money of which he might be possessed, with the view that, in case of his death, there might be no dispute as to how it was to be disposed of. He regretted, however, to have to state
 1939 l. l.
 COLONEL KNOX : Therefore it is that I think it is impossible you can get on without the assistance of a Paymaster-General of the forces.
 COLONEL KNOX  said, he could not allow this Vote to pass without observing that, after what they had recently seen, it was perfectly obvious that some system should be adopted of recognizing military merit different to any that had hitherto been pursued. He should not have ventured to mention the subject, as it might in some respects be considered as trenching on the prerogative of the Crown, if the late Minister of War had not shadowed forth some distinguished "Order of Merit" as being likely to be established that would embrace all ranks in the army. He must own that he felt very strongly on this point. There already existed an Order, which was conferred both on the army and on the navy—he meant the order of the Bath. It was known that that order was granted not only to those officers who obtained the rank of colonel, but also to post-captains in the navy. Now, what he would suggest was, that this Order should be extended to other classes in both services. It was a hard case that meritorious men, whether captains of companies, lieutenants, and ensigns, or non-commissioned officers and privates, who had behaved with gallantry in the field, and conducted themselves well in every other respect, should not be rewarded with some mark of distinction; and if he wished to put the
 1945
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he quite agreed with the hon. Member for Southwark (Mr. Pellatt) in thinking it very hard that a corporal should lose his good-service pay on being promoted to the rank of a sergeant.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he believed that our disasters in the Crimea had been owing to the smallness of our troops there in proportion to the duties imposed on them. Could the Quartermaster General be blamed if men could not be spared for making roads? He did not know how England could expect to get either generals or admirals to serve her; for no sooner had those officers undertaken their commands, than their reputation was pretty sure to be assailed.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he would not object to the second reading of the Bill if the last clause were struck out. The Bill professed to remove doubts as to the Commissions of officers of militia in Ireland who had omitted to deliver descriptions of their qualifications, and to indemnify them against the consequences. He knew prosecutions were going on now, and there could be no objection to put an end to them, but there was a clause giving power
 1949
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT said : This vote I cannot permit to pass without availing myself of such an opportunity to express that admiration which I, in common with this House and the country, entertain, when I review the exertions and self-denial of Miss Nightingale and her companions. With a wonderful fortitude and high religious purpose she left her happy home and country to go into a land of strangers, her one object to minister at the bedside of the wounded, in the midst of disease, trial, suffering, and sorrow, from which we shield our wives and daughters, and such as but few in this country could endure even to look upon; nor can I believe a more grateful tribute can be offered to that noble-hearted lady, since such womanly merit ever shrinks from praise, and such highsouled enterprise looks to God and not to man for commendation, than to mention here the names of two friends of hers—two associated with her in affection, and who accompanied her on her mission of mercy and kindness; they, having shared her anxieties, deserve a portion of the common praise. I need scarcely say I allude to Mr. and Mrs. Bracebridge, and it is only an act of justice to allude to one other source of aid, one great means of relieving her anxiety and forwarding her good work. Without warm clothing, without comforts, without the little luxuries, without the stimulants and all the indispensable appliances to cheer the drooping and invigorate the convalescent, the tenderest nurse and the most assiduous surgeon are crippled in any effectual service; they exhaust themselves in mind and body to little purpose. It is due, then, to that journal which holds so prominent a place among the daily press to say it became foremost in the van to point to succour to the sick and wounded in the hospitals at Scutari—it collected contributions for a public fund, as its own subscription it provided an able steward of those bounties at its own personal cost. What has been the result? Testimonies of gratitude, not only in Scutari, but in Balaklava, and in the trenches, and on board the transports, for lives preserved through this humane interference; only one word have I further to add, that it is a marked characteristic of this country, and one, though not without precedent in this century, yet without parallel, that from every age and condition
 1911
 COLONEL BOLDERO  said, he had called the attention of the Government the other evening to the great improvement which had taken place in the health of European troops in India from the use of porter, the deaths in one regiment having fallen from ten to two per cent; and he need hardly state that this led to a great saving of money, apart altogether from motives of humanity. Indeed, there could be no doubt as to the advantages flowing from an issue of porter to the troops; and ho wished, therefore, to know from the Government whether they would furnish a Return showing the quantities of that beverage sent to the East?—what portions of it had been returned to England, and for what cause?—whether the agent who contracted for the conveyance of the porter had sent in a bill of expenses to the Government for the retention of the ship; and, also, whether there was any objection to lay on the table of the House the correspondence that had taken place with reference to the supply of the porter? He had also stated on a former evening that officers wounded in the army had no place of refuge at home such as was provided for naval officers, and the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) said he thought that was a subject worthy of consideration. There could be no doubt of the hardship entailed upon officers who were sent home wounded in being put to a great expense to effect a cure. He knew the case of a young man who had been severely wounded in the Crimea. The wound was very obstinate, and he came home, when after heavy expense and great care and attention he began to get the better of it. He went before the Medical Board and receiv-
 1927 l., l.
 MR. HARDINGE  said, he wished to say one word with regard to what had fallen from his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Portarlington (Colonel Dunne). One of the charges which he brought against the Government, if he understood him rightly, was, that no officers from the senior department at Sandhurst had been appointed to the general staff of the army. Now, what was the case? No less than nine or ten officers from the senior department at Sandhurst had been appointed to the general staff. He would instance time names of the following officers in the Quartermaster General's Department:—Major Morris, who led the 17th Lancers at Balaklava; Captain Wetherall, Captain Sankey, and others, who had received certificates for high proficiency, and had taken honours at Sandhurst. He believed that the accommodation at the senior department of Sandhurst might be advantageously increased. At present only fifteen officers could be accommodated;
 1905
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he thought he had stated that the fault lay with the paymaster at Scutari, and that he desired a proper person to be sent out to replace him.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, the
 1941 d. 1942 d.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, the regimental schoolmasters educated at Chelsea were for the use of Ireland as well as of England.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, the Government ought to be guided, in considering this question, by the number of orphan children who required education. When the school at Chelsea was first established by the Duke of York, the number of children placed there was much greater than it had been up to a recent period. The Secretary at War, in consequence of the reduction in the number of children, seized on a part of the building and used it as a normal school for training regimental schoolmasters, and, when the claim for the introduction of a larger number of soldiers' orphans was pr
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he could give the hon. Member some explanation on that point. On a consideration of the relative proportions of the several denominations comprising the army it had hitherto been held that the Roman catholics constituted one-third of the whole army. Acting on that conviction the total number of clergymen originally sent out to the Crimea being twenty-four, of these, twelve belonged to the Church of England, eight to the Church of Rome, and four to the Presbyterian Church. Subsequently, however, it was proposed by members of different religious bodies that a certain sum should be subscribed, in order to supply an additional number of chaplains to the army, on the understanding that one-
 1930
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he wished to call attention to an abuse which was a consequence of the mode in which this vote was administered. When a colonel
 1946
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he must beg to say that the hon. Gentleman had wholly failed to answer his objection as to the promotion of equerries to the staff. The
 1918
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he wished to refer to a document of great importance, relating to the future administration of the army, which had lately been laid upon the table of the House. A Royal Commission had been issued last year for the purpose of inquiring as to the best mode of improving the system of promotion in the army, with the view of bringing to the higher ranks of the service officers at an earlier period of life than those who attained such positions in the ordinary course of gradation. The Commissioners having reported, Her Majesty approved of their recommendations, and directed the Secretary at War and the Master General of the Ordnance to take them for their guidance in their respective offices. Warrants were accordingly issued, laying down the principle that promotions, instead of following the order of seniority, as they had hitherto done to a great extent, should proceed by selection. The first item of the Royal warrant declared that the rank of field marshal should henceforth be conferred without reference to seniority. This provision he considered was wholly unnecessary, because under the previous system the rank of field marshal was conferred by the Sovereign upon great occasions without regard to seniority; and, to cite a memorable instance, the Duke of Wellington could not have been made a field marshal, as he was, after the battle of Vittoria, if only the oldest general could have been so promoted. The second alteration made by the Queen's Warrant provided that, instead of officers rising from the rank of lieutenant colonel by degrees to that of general officers, without reference to the service they might have rendered, henceforth a certain service as lieutenant colonels should be essential to qualify them for the rank of general officers; and the term fixed was a period of three years in command of a regiment, or as lieutenant colonel of a regiment, excepting in the case of an officer filling a post on the staff corresponding to the command of a regiment, and one or two other exceptions. One qualification which had been since added to the original recommendations regarding the promotion of general officers was of a most extraordinary character, because it entitled officers who had served for six years as equerry to the Sovereign to at-
 1913 1914
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he thought the hon. Gentleman had arrived at an erroneous conclusion. The order was that a Commission should be granted to a noncommissioned officer in each regiment; but, in order to lose no time in carrying that order into effect, Lord Raglan had power to give temporary rank to the new Commissions, each in his own regiment.
 LORD LOVAINE  said, he wished to inquire whether the Government intended to resort to the ballot for the militia?
 LORD LOVAINE  said, it was not his opinion that the education in the senior department at Sandhurst was of the best character, or the most useful for the officers of the staff. In foreign countries,
 1935
 LORD NAAS  said, he wished to ask a question in connection with this Vote. It was stated the other night that a sum of 10,000 l. 1936
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, that what he had to complain of was that sergeants were placed at a disadvantage in comparison with privates and corporals, who received good conduct money, which the sergeant lost when he reached that step. This appeared to him an anomaly, and an injustice that required to be redressed. As the colonels and generals in the House did not come forward to advocate the interests of these subordinate officers, but confined all their sympathies to the higher class of officers, he would come forward in their behalf, and do his best to get the injustice remedied. When a sergeant was promoted he paid 3 d.
 MR. A. STAFFORD  said, that since the right hon. Gentleman the late Secretary at War seemed to be dissatisfied with the result produced by his letters he could not do better than to try what would be the effect of his presence at Scutari in person. The right hon. Gentleman might do so now without any considerable inconvenience, inasmuch as he was relieved from the responsibility of office. If his Parliamentary duties stood in the way of the right hon. Gentleman's taking that step, he (Mr. Stafford) could only say that he should be happy to pair with him for the remaining portion of the Session, and should they proceed together to Scutari, he would promise to point out to the right hon. Gentleman much to remedy, to which he might with advantage apply his official knowledge.
 MR. A. STAFFORD  said, he was exceedingly glad the attention of the Committee had been called to the subject. When he was on a visit to the hospital there was not a single day on which the matter was not pressed upon his attention. There were soldiers to whom pay was due who could not send any portion of it to their relations in England. They said, "We do not ask charity, we do not ask
 1940
 MR. LAYARD  said, that in the last despatch received from Lord Raglan he observed with some astonishment the following paragraph—
 "Forage is our only want, and this arises chiefly from the Commissary General not receiving from England the supplies of hay upon which he has reckoned." 1915
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he would be glad to know whether clothing for the troops in the Crimea, suited for the spring and summer months, was being prepared,
 1886
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he must protest against men speaking about the army who did not know the muzzle from the butt-end of a musket. The hon. Gentleman's (Mr. W. Williams) speech was an electioneering speech, cooked up for his constituents. He hoped the House entertained a better feeling of regard for the army than the hon. Gentleman. As for his part, he had constantly heard him, but always with the same feeling of contempt. He would not take the hon. Gentleman as a member of an awkward squad.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that the men who had volunteered into the line from the regiment which he had the honour to command had been highly approved of, and were most efficient soldiers.
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, when the army went from this country to the East it was little contemplated that such services would be cast upon it as it had since been called on to perform. Some thought the army would never go beyond Malta, and others believed that an entrenched camp at Constantinople would be all that would be required; but no one then dreamed that an expedition to the Crimea would be undertaken. He had a remark to make upon one subject, which had an important bearing on the efficiency of the army—the employment of men of advanced years who were past the period of their vigour and strength. It was no reproach to a man that he was between sixty and seventy years of age, but rather it was greatly to his honour that, instead of seeking repose at such a time of life, he would devote the remnant of his strength to the service of his country; but the consequences were very much to be regretted, when an arduous and difficult task was imposed on such an officer. He hoped that
 1902
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he wished to know what the Government proposed to do with respect to the billeting of the militia in Scotland, where the system was different to that of England, the men not being billeted in public-houses, but on householders. He had received communications from Oban and another place, pointing out the inconvenience which resulted from the system. He wished to know whether barracks were to be built, and buildings set apart for hospitals.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he thought that in granting the promotion it was impossible to separate those who received it from their own regiments. He trusted that his hon. Friend (Mr. Warner) would press his Amendment.
 MR. RICE  said, he would be very glad to see some aid given to the institution, in order that the objects suggested by the hon. and gallant Member for Oxfordshire could be carried out.
 MR. RICE  said, he could not remain silent while an hon. Gentleman designated such an institution as the Royal Military College as a piece of jobbery. He must bear his testimony to the value of that institution. He hoped and believed that when the hon. and gallant Member for Oxfordshire (Colonel North) said that it was merely Royal by name, he did not mean to cast a stigma upon the institution. Now, instead of officers' sons having to pay 100 l. l.
 MR. WARNER  said, he would take that opportunity of expressing the regret with which he had heard hon. Members attack the conduct of Lord Raglan and the officers in the Crimea, because at the present moment he did not believe that they possessed sufficient data to judge of the conduct of those officers. It rested on the responsibility of the Government to recall them or continue them in their commands if they felt satisfied with them; but he was convinced that an inquiry perfectly independent of that moved for by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, or the Commission which had been sent out, would take place before long at the bar of public opinion with respect to the calamities which had befallen our army in the present war. If that Tribunal should acquit the late Ministers and Lord Raglan, he was confident that there was no class of men upon whom suspicion would more immediately fall than those officers, and he thought they were prejudging the question by granting them rewards at the present moment. He should move that the Vote be reduced by 200 l.,
 MR. WARNER  said, that he had no intention of bringing any charge or of prejudging the matter.
 MR. WARNER  said, he was glad to hear that it was intended to do away with the objectionable system of billeting, and would suggest that temporary barracks of wood or iron would answer every purpose.
 MR. WARNER  said, he thought that much of the mischief that had occurred in the Crimea had arisen from the inefficient
 1917
 MR. WARNER  said, that in deference to the opinion of the Committee he would not press his Amendment.
 MR. FRENCH  said, he rose to say a few words in personal explanation in consequence of an observation which had fallen from him in the early part of the evening which had been misunderstood. It was true he did use the words "rank and
 1912
 MR. FRENCH  said, that having on a former occasion put a question to the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government, and not having been able to obtain a satisfactory answer, he now availed himself of the opportunity which the present motion offered him to repeat that question. It might be in the recollection of hon. Members that, on the noble Lord taking his seat after his election for Tiverton, he (Mr. French) felt it his duty to ask whether there was any reason why Sergeant Sullivan, who had carried the colours of his regiment and had signalised himself by great bravery in battle, and had been honourably noticed by the general of his division, should not have been promoted, and the House would, perhaps, equally bear in mind that the reply he received from the noble Lord was, that general authority had been given to the Commander in Chief of the army in the Crimea to promote one non-commissioned officer in each regiment; that another non-commissioned officer, belonging to the regiment in which Sergeant Sullivan served, had been recommended for promotion by the colonel of the regiment, and his appointment had been sanctioned by Lord Raglan. He must confess he heard
 1887 Evening Mail, "Had it been even necessary to make a post of distinction, in order to reward Sergeant Sullivan's bravery, a wise Government would not have hesitated an instant about it, especially at the commencement of a war, on which so much depends evidently upon the courage and intelligence of the 'rank and file,' and of which—according to illustrious authority—all the glory up to this moment pertains to the soldiery. If it be true, as we believe it is, that Sergeant Sullivan was mainly instrumental in saving the Second Division from a like calamity to that which nearly overwhelmed the whole army in a few days afterwards, he should have been promoted on the field of battle. Napoleon Bonaparte would have made
 1888 Gazette, Times Charity, 1889
 MR. G. DUNDAS  said, he believed that there had been no more fertile cause of complaint than the premature promotion of the staff officers. There were many deserving officers who had gone through the dangers of Inkerman, but had not been promoted nor mentioned in despatches, merely because they happened to be regimental instead of staff officers. For instance, one of the generals happened to be down at Balaklava on the day of the battle of Inkerman, but, on hearing of what was going forward, he made the best of his way to the front; he was accompanied by a young man—almost a boy, in fact—as aide-de-camp. He arrived on the field late in the day, but both the general and his aide-de-camp were mentioned in despatches, and the young man received his promotion immediately. The hon. Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Layard) had complained of a want of forage at Balaklava, but what had struck him most when he was there was, not the want of forage, but the want of men to receive and distribute it. In fact, there was a very large quantity of forage lying at Balaklava at the very time that horses, within a mile, were actually starving for want of it. Shortly after his arrival, early in December, he rode out to the cavalry camp, about a mile from the town, and the state of the horses there struck him with horror. They were standing at their pickets—and this was after two or three days' successive rain, hail, and snow—without any covering and without even a rug laid over them. Every alternate horse almost lay dead, and the vicinity of the camp was strewed with their carcases. The mane and hair of the tail of many had been eaten off by their neighbours, showing the state of starvation to which they had been reduced, and yet, all
 1920 Cormorant plateau 1921 plateau 1922 sine quâ non plateau 1923 1924
 MR. G. DUNDAS  said, he rejoiced that the subject of the mismanagement of the
 1898 Eagle. l. Telegraph, 1899
 MR. MUNTZ  said, that about three or four years ago he was informed that a representation had been made to the Government regarding the improvements which had been effected in the staff of the French army, and, at the same time, it was stated that if it should ever be the bad fortune of this country to come into collision with France, although the bravery of our troops might prove successful in the outset, still, the more perfect organisation of the army of that country would enable it to overcome us in the end. He was informed that, in consequence of that statement, a Commission had been appointed to inquire into the circumstances of the case, and that, although the Report of that Commission had been laid before the Government, it had never yet been acted upon. He merely wished to state that, if the case which he had mentioned to the House were correct, there must be, in his opinion, great blame attached to some one.
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he wished to explain that he had referred to the fact of no notice being taken of a Report made some time ago, but did not in the least mean to refer to what was being done at present.
 MR. BAILLIE  said, he wished, before Mr. Speaker left the Chair, to ask for one or two explanations, which he thought to be due from the Government to the House. The hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the War Department would recollect that upon a previous evening he (Mr. Baillie) had asked him some questions respecting the new establishment which was to be attached to the army—the land transport service—which appeared to be established upon a very large scale, and with regard to which at that time the hon. Gentleman was not able to give any details to the House. The hon. Gentleman stated, indeed, that it was to consist of not less than 8,000 men; but be was unable to state the number of horses, nor did he say whether it was to be a permanent branch of the army, or only to be attached for this special service in the Crimea. Upon a former occasion, the right lion. Gentleman the late Secretary at War (Mr. S. Herbert) had expressed his opinion that many of the disasters and misfortunes which had attended our arms in the East had been occasioned by the failure or imperfection of our military establishment, and he had drawn a very graphic picture of the state and condition of the English army, which he observed was no army at all, but nothing better than merely a collection of regiments; he had said that the superior officers were unacquainted with their duties; that there was no staff corps attached to the army; that there was no waggon-train attached to it; that there was no commissariat department; and, perhaps, he might have added, that there was no medical department, for that branch appeared to be as defective as any other of the establishments. That was a very melancholy picture of the state of the English army; but it was an extraordinary one to emanate from the Secretary at War. It appeared never to have occurred
 1897
 MR. BAILLIE  said, he wished to ask
 1916 "Mr. Sidney Herbert presents his compliments to the Bishop of Moray and Ross, and begs to say, that any contributions people are kindly disposed to make for the use of the army will be thankfully received and forwarded, if sent to Messrs. Hayter and Howell, 52, Mark Lane. It is requested an invoice of contents may accompany each parcel, and that the direction may be distinct either to Scutari or the Crimea, according to its destination. If a suggestion may be permitted, pillowcases and sheets for the hospital might be at present more acceptable than shirts."
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, he wished to take an opportunity of correcting a misapprehension which had arisen out of a question which he had put to the Government a few days ago respecting the clothing of the militia in his district. He had stated on that occasion that some of the men had been compelled to mount sentry without greatcoats, and his observations had been construed into a reflection upon the general of the district. He was sorry that such misapprehension should have arisen, for as soon as that officer was
 1891
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Wiltshire (Mr. S. Herbert) had stated that some stoppages had been made at Scutari, contrary to the regulations of the service. Was it not possible to ascertain whose fault it was, and to visit the offenders with punishment.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, it was observable that whenever any abuse was brought before that House, it was sure to be attributed to "routine." Was there no way of killing routine?
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, if it should be found on inquiry that the school at Dublin had the same claim as that at Chelsea it ought to have a similar grant, but not otherwise.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he considered the answer of the noble Lord with respect to Sergeant Sullivan perfectly satisfactory, but he considered that the rule which had been laid down, that one commission only should be given amongst the non-commissioned officers in each regiment was unsatisfactory, and ought not to be put forward against the claims of a man who had distinguished himself in the way that Sergeant Sullivan had done.
 MR. WILSON  said, that the hon. and gallant Member had on a former occasion put a question to him, which he would now take the opportunity of answering. The effect of the question, as he understood it, was whether or not cargoes of porter which had been despatched from this country had arrived at Constantinople, but that, from the circumstance of there being no officer appointed to receive them there, the vessels containing those cargoes had returned again to this country with the porter; and whether an action was not now pending against the Government for non-performance of their contract? He had great pleasure in informing the House that there was not the slightest foundation for that rumour. There had never been any question at all as to porter returning home, although, in the case of porter or of other provisions having arrived at different ports after the troops had left, there undoubtedly had been questions as to the amount of freight which the Government should pay, taking into consideration the difference of the length of the voyage which those vessels had to perform as compared with the length of the voyage for which they were originally destined. He might mention that porter formed no part of the rations ordinarily issued to the troops, but, with the view of furnishing it to them at prime cost, four cargoes had been despatched from this country. In one case a vessel was sent to Malta, but when it arrived the troops had left that place, and that vessel was subsequently sent on to Varna; another vessel had, in the same way, after having been first sent to Constantinople, been sent to Varna, and subsequently to the Crimea; another vessel landed her cargo at Scutari, where it was used; and the fourth of those vessels carried her cargo to Varna, and it was consumed there. There was no foundation for the rumour that any action for non-performance of contract was pending against the Government, although, of course, the claims made by the contractors for the additional length of voyage were under consideration. With regard to the method in which that porter was purchased, he could only state that it had been bought upon contract by
 1928
 MR. BRADY  said, he must beg to explain that he did not wish to throw any slight upon the institution, but he only wanted to call the attention of the Committee to the glaring fact of the one-ninth of the whole Vote being devoted as salaries to the governor and lieutenant-governor of the establishment.
 MR. BRADY  said, he wished to make some remarks in reference to what had been stated a few nights ago, by the First Lord of the Treasury, when these Estimates were first brought under the consideration of the House. The noble Lord then endeavoured to shift upon other shoulders the blame that ought properly to be visited upon himself and his colleagues, and proceeded to and fault with the conduct of the medical men that were now in the Crimea. Now, he wished the Com-
 1933 l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that two of the Roman Catholics originally sent were dead, four were invalided, and he believed only two now remained. What he wanted to know was, whether any steps would be taken to fill up the vacancies thus created?
 Mr. MAGUIRE  said, he thought it was derogatory to the dignity of the nation, and discreditable to the Government, whose duty it was to provide for the spiritual as well as the other wants of the army, that a bargain should have been entered into with the very poorest class of the community—the Roman Catholics of England, of Ireland, and of Scotland—by which they were required to pay a portion of the expense of the clergy who were sent out to minister to those who were fighting the battles of their country. He would venture to say that in the list of those who had been killed or disabled every third name was that of an Irishman, and the presumption was that those men were Roman Catholics. He believed that one-third of the soldiers who had been sent out from this country to the Crimea some eight or nine months since were Roman Catholics. The 23rd Fusileers was called a Welsh regiment, but he saw that regiment embark at Cork, and he was informed at the time, both by soldiers and officers who belonged to it, that two-thirds of the men had been enlisted in the south of Ireland. He believed that nearly one-half of the soldiers who had sailed for the Crimea were Roman Catholics, and he thought it was most discreditable to the Government and to the nation that such a bargain should have been entered into as that to which the right hon. Gentleman had referred.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he had put a question relative to the number of Roman Catholic chaplains employed in connection with our army in the East, and, as yet, he had received no answer. As considerable anxiety prevailed on the subject in Ireland, he would repeat his question, and he would request that something like a distinct answer would be given to him.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that those who sat on the Treasury benches, though generally responsible for the failure of our troops, had cheered the statement that the men in the trenches had too much to do. But had the 54,000 men sent out there been properly cared for. they would never have suffered as they had done. It was merely another instance of the blundering which prevailed in the departments at home. He felt the profoundest sympathy, as did every Irishman, for our brave troops in the East. He was convinced that the blundering and stupidity of the late Government had caused more destruction in our army than had their Muscovite foes. Had those 54,000 men been watched over by a general like Wellington, would they, he asked, have been reduced to 24,000 effective men at this moment? The whole career of the Government mismanagement had been a huge disaster. He would mention one instance of mismanagement that had come to his knowledge. A large ship, with 190 bullocks on board, for the troops in the trenches, was about to enter Balaklava; but some wretched nincompoop of an official, by his blundering stupidity, kept the vessel waiting five days; and the result was that only eighty bullocks out of the 190 were landed alive. The troops had been literally starved and murdered in the trenches by the neglect of some department, at whose door their blood would lie. He would say this of Lord Raglan, that, from all he had seen and heard, until that general was replaced, we should not have a successful prosecution of the war. It was only through the newspapers that the public derived their information, and through them the Government had been galvanised into something like activity. At a moment when the greatest distress and despondency prevailed in the Crimea, Lord Raglan was never seen; he was not even known to the troops. Surely it was
 1925
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he wished to ask how it was that the 46th Regiment was without clothing in the Crimea; whether any person had been punished for that neglect; and whether it was disputed that, inconsequence of that neglect, the men had perished in a frightful way?
 MR. ROEBUCK : Sir, before the noble Lord answers that question, I beg to state that I have been in communication with a gentleman who is here as a delegate from Newfoundland. He has already waited upon three separate Colonial Ministers. If Lord John Russell be appointed, and he attends on him, that will make the fourth. Now, as that gentleman is in this country seeking, on the part of the House of Assembly of Newfoundland, the removal of the Governor—nothing less—I think it will be seen that the question of the right hon. Baronet is of great importance.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, he wished to be permitted to pay a humble tribute of respect to the memory of Mr. Hume. He had been for twenty-one years a witness of his labours, and he never saw a man less actuated by feelings of party than Mr. Hume, or who had more claims to the respect and veneration of the country. If ever there was a honest Member of Parliament, Mr. Hume was one.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he was anxious to call the attention of the hon. Under Secretary for War to the question put by the hon. Member for Stafford (Mr. Otway) as to the punishment of the two privates for firing at an effigy of the Czar. There were probably good reasons for it, but he thought it most desirable, in the present state of the army and the country, that some explanation should be given on this subject.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he thought the claim of Dublin Hospital was quite as great as that of Chelsea.
 MR. NAPIER  said, this was a perfectly Irish Bill. One part of the 6th clause gave power to Her Majesty to signify her pleasure to the colonel or other commanding officer of any such regiment of militia to displace all or any officers or officer of militia, &c. It then went on to remove doubts which had been entertained whether such provision included the removal of the colonel, by declaring that it should be lawful for Her Majesty to signify to the colonel her pleasure that he should be displaced from his command. The first clause, too, was so framed that it enabled any person, simply by lodging a certificate of qualification, to become qualified whether he had any property or not.
 MAJOR REED  said, he wished to know whether any reforms were intended to be made at the Horse Guards? He would not enter into details of the iniquities of that establishment, but he trusted the Government would turn their attention to it, as reform in that department was generally demanded by the country.
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said, he begged to call attention to a few of the appointments recently made in the army, which were accompanied with a certain degree of injustice to old and meritorious officers. He alluded to the appointment of Generals Bentinck, Campbell, and Pennefather to the colonelcies of regiments. They were worthy, no doubt, of every reward, but in the way in which it was conferred an injustice had been done to old and deserving officers. He could not help expressing himself much disappointed at the
 1926
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said, he was sure there must have been some exaggeration in the statements in the letters from the female friends of soldiers in the hospital to the effect that if they did not receive remittances they would be obliged to resort to prostitution. The Central Association had been established for the express purpose of supporting the wives and families of soldiers sent to the East, and he knew it had supported no less than 13,000 persons at an expense of about 1,000 l.
 MR. MONTAGUE CHAMBERS  said, he was desirous of asking some questions as to the reorganisation of the medical staff. It was a prevalent opinion that the medical staff in the Crimea ought to be placed on an entirely different footing from that it now occupied. In the first place, with regard to those who were appointed to attend to the sick, it was admitted that there had been great defects with respect to the individual surgeons whose duty it had been to attend to the sick. He thought it was perfectly clear, that with reference to their powers in the performance of their duties, however humane and skilful they might be, those powers had been very much crippled and overtaxed, and that consequently they had been unable to discharge their duties efficiently. There had been a defect—a routine defect—a defect arising from a kind of susceptibility in reference to the departments which had very much interfered with the efficiency of the medical staff. There had been, to his certain knowledge, many enthusiastic and skilful surgeons who had been extremely desirous of going out to the Crimea for the purpose of devoting themselves to one of the most admirable duties that could be performed by men in their station, and yet they had been met by impediments. It struck him (Mr. M. Chambers) that instead of impediments being put in their way, every facility should be afforded to such men, that when they went to put down their names their qualifications should be instantly inquired into, and that if they brought good testimonials they should that instant be marched for the station to which they were desirous of proceeding. But instead of that, when a man put down his name, being desirous of going to the Crimea, he might be despatched forthwith to Van Diemen's Land or Sierra Leone. He therefore thought it was the duty of every Member of Parliament, in the present critical state of affairs, to mention these little incidents to the authorities, in order that a repetition of the evils complained of might be prevented. He was anxious to know what new arrangements had been made to send out an efficient body of surgeons and other medical officers. The second question on
 1919
 MR. MONTAGUE CHAMBERS  said, he could not resist saying a few words when he heard the Guards attacked. It was with the deepest feelings of anxiety
 1909
 MR. P. O'BRIEN  said, he wished to know whether any order had been promulgated against Irishmen being recruited for the brigade of Guards? The Guards—more especially the household cavalry—
 1929
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, there appeared the other day in the newspapers an account of a proposition having been made to the War Office to transmit a certain sum from this country to persons lying in the hospitals at Scutari and Constantinople, and that the War Office not only declined to receive the money, but stated that the persons lying in the hospital at Scutari had received every comfort and everything that money could supply, and that such assistance was perfectly superfluous. He should be happy if the Under Secretary of War could inform the Committee whether he would be able to afford the means by which the charity of this country could reach those brave and unhappy men.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he was aware of cases in which colonels of regiments had written to the War Office stating that they had men ready to recruit for particular regiments, and they had been informed that a sergeant would be sent down to recruit for the regular army from militia regiments. But after the lapse of some time the dispositions of the men changed. Now, he thought it would be better to give the colonels greater facilities for sending up men who wished to join the regular army.
 MR. PARKER  said, he must complain of the quality of the cloth of which the trousers of some of the militia regiments were made; he would mention an instance in one of the East Lancashire regiments, in which, when a hot iron was applied to the cloth, it took away not only the colour but the whole of the dressing. The cloth of which the militia uniforms was made was far inferior to that of which the uniforms of the rural police, and even of the felons, was manufactured. The boots, too, were of a shameful description, so bad that the soles frequently left the upperleathers as soon as they were brought into use.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government whether he had heard that the principle of voluntary enlistment had been very seriously interfered with by the Bill passed before Christmas, which empowered the Crown to send out the militia to garrison our colonies and military stations abroad? And if so, he would suggest that, instead of sending the militia to those places, the draughts which were now made from them into the regular service might be sent to those places. The chief object of the Militia Bill was to keep in this country a constant standing force in a state of preparation for the national defence; but that object would be interfered with if, as soon as the men
 1944
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he was of opinion that our worst foe in the Crimea had been our own mismanagement. Here was a country, occupying more than one-seventh of the entire world, with a frontier of 25,000 miles, with an army called in a general way 1,000,000 strong, and now likely to be augmented to 8,000,000 or 10,000,000; and yet we had attacked that enormous empire at only one single point upon the whole of its vast frontier. What had we done in this contest with Russia? In the north we had done nothing from which one particle of benefit could he derived. Nothing had been done in Poland, in Sweden, or even in Austria, and not a single practical benefit had yet been obtained from one of those countries. Sardinia certainly had come gallantly forward, and shown her spirit of independence, and he hoped by her conduct she would gain the position she deserved in the scale of nations. Then, what had been done with regard to Asia? No assistance had been given there to assist the tribes fighting for their own independence. The fortress of Anapa, on the Sea of Azoff, was still in the hands of Russia, and had not even been attacked; and although England and France boasted of their ascendancy in the Black Sea, it was not true that they had such an ascendancy until Anapa was in their hands. Georgia was also in a state of paralysis, because nothing had been done to assist her. How was the case as regarded Persia? Our Minister, Mr. Murray was certainly now on his way thither, but for nearly two years we had
 1896
 MR. BERESFORD  said, he at least had no reason to believe that the staff of the War Office had been unnecessarily increased. He therefore did not rise to object to the present Vote, but to make a few observations in reference to the Estimates of 1853, and which he was precluded from making at the time in consequence of his having been confined to bed. It happened that in the year 1852, in consequence of the embodiment of that force, the militia estimates were first brought forward. Having the honour at that time of holding the office of Secretary at War, be had deemed it his duty to make an application to the Treasury for a trifling increase in the number of clerks employed at the office, on account of the extra work to be got through. His application having been sent in in the beginning of July, a Commission was issued during the month of September, consisting of the noble Lord the Member for Buckinghamshire (the Marquess of Chandos), Sir Charles Trevelyan, Mr. Bromley, and Mr. Hawes, to consider the whole subject, and they continued their inquiries until the month of December. Well, on the 16th of that month the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) then Chancellor of the Exchequer
 1932
 MR. HAYTER  said, he had now to move for a new writ for a citizen to represent the City of London in the present Parliament, in the room of John Russell, Esq., commonly called Lord John Russell, who had accepted the office of one of Her Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State.
 MR. KEOGH  said, he must maintain that the intention of the clauses was clear enough, although their wording might be rather obscure. Any alteration, however, that was thought necessary might be considered in Committee.
 MR. KEOGH  moved the second reading of this Bill, and said he hoped that no objection would be made by hon. Gentlemen opposite.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he would be glad if the Under Secretary for the War Office would answer his question.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to compare the number of men voted for the army in 1835, with the approbation of the Duke of Wellington, with the number voted in 1852, the year before this war broke out. The army and auxiliary forces had increased during that period to nearly double the number that was deemed necessary by the Duke of Wellington; the charges, consequently, ought not to be made, which had often been advanced against his late hon. Friend (Mr. Hume), that his frequent Motions for economy had tended too much to reduce the standing army. There was an increase of nearly 6,000,000 l. l. l, 1906 "The prisoner, after being stripped, was tied up to the triangles by the arms and legs, while the adjutant stood by, to count each stroke as it fell from the powerful arm of the drummer, selected from among the others for his aptitude in what is called slow time—a refinement of cruelty only known to the English army. I had expected a bloody scene, but the cruelty far exceeded all I had even dreamed of human torture. At the fifth stroke of the lash, the flesh rose up on the sufferer's back in welts almost as thick as my wrist, and the writhing of the body showed the agony he endured. As each successive lash fell on the lacerated and bleeding back, blood flowed about on all around him. After the fortieth lash had been inflicted, he was untied, but after staggering a few paces, fell fainting, when he was removed to the hospital, and placed under the medical officers. He has yet to receive the remainder of his punishment, 104 days of solitary confinement." "In justice to the officers, we have heard it stated that they were averse to flogging in this case, but were overruled by a recently arrived high military authority, well known as a martinet." l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he must complain of the attack which had been made upon him by the hon. and gallant Member for Marlow (Colonel Knox) for a statement which he had made on a former occasion. Now, what was it that he on that occasion stated? He complained that the Guards had a sum of 500 l. s. d.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the statement he made was from a newspaper which had been circulated about the country. It was sent to him by a gentleman of high respectability, and was accompanied by a letter.
 Mr. W. WILLIAMS  said, that the Under Secretary for the War Department had expressed his intention to reduce this Vote by the amount of the salary of the
 1931
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, there was no complaint against the establishment itself, and he for one thought it ought to be extended; but such an item as that of 442 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, according to the statement he had seen in the public press, the Commander in Chief had been authorised to promote one sergeant in each
 1948
 MR. OTWAY  said, he had never intended to make a charge against the Government, nor had he ever said that the men had been firing at the Emperor of Russia. He wished they could. All he wanted to convey was that he thought two soldiers had been too severely punished for a trivial offence. As he was on his legs, perhaps he might be allowed to express a hope that the Government would see the necessity of attaching to the War Department an officer whose duties would be analogous to those performed by officers in the countries. He wished to see an officer appointed whose special duty it would be to observe the military occurrences of other countries, particularly all new inventions in firearms, to take account of them and report on them to the department.
 MR. OTWAY  said, that with reference to the statement of the hon. Member for Downpatrick (Mr. Hardinge) concerning the staff appointments, he should like to know the date at which the nine officers who had been alluded to were appointed. But even if the fact were so, there had been fifty staff appointments made, and what he complained of was, that there should be one single officer appointed to the staff without such qualifications, so long as there were others serving in the army who had been instructed specially for that service in the senior department at Sandhurst. Those who had gone through the prescribed studies, with the understanding that they were to have staff appointments, could hardly ever obtain them, except by private interest, or on the application of some general officer. He denied that the ill success of our army was to be ascribed to any extraordinary inclemency of the season, or to any unprecedented difficulties. In the campaign of 1848 in Transylvania there was a large army moved without tents, and bivouacking on the snow, obliged to manufacture its own arms, and all its gigantic operations were carried on in a climate much more rigorous than that of the Crimea, and the circumstances were much less difficult in the present campaign, but our calamities were owing to the want of foresight in the authorities at home. He wished to ask one question of the hon. Under Secretary for War. At this time, when we had to vote so many soldiers, he wished to know why the country should be deprived of the services of two, belonging to a regiment now in England; he alluded to those two private soldiers who, as we saw in the papers, were lately tried by a court martial for the offence of making away with their ammunition, and were sentenced, private Gibson to fifty-two days' imprisonment, and private Gallagher to 162 days' imprisonment. He thought the severity of that sentence was really extraordinary, for surely the act of shooting at the Czar or at his portrait, of which these two men had been guilty, was one that might at this time be treated more leniently.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he thought there was no period in history where our officers had met with treatment so unjust as had been awarded to Lord Ragan and our officers in the Crimea, they having been condemned by many hon. Members without being afforded the least opportunity of being heard. He could not concur in the proposition of the hon. Member to reduce the Vote by depriving the Adjutant and Quartermaster General of the sum awarded to them. Great blame had been attributed to some officers in the Crimea, especially those on the staff; but he hoped that when the matter was fully investigated, they would be brought before a tribunal a little less vague than that of public opinion.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he would now beg to ask the Under Secretary of War—the Parliament having voted a sum of 400 l.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, there having already existed a Regius Professorship of Military Surgery in Edinburgh, it was proposed that the plan should be extended to London and Dublin. A Vote was taken last year, and would be renewed this year. A proposal had been made for assimilating the system adopted in the different colleges. He was not aware that it had been yet arranged, but he saw no reason why there should be any further delay, and therefore it was proposed that the matter should be disposed of as soon as possible.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, the authorities of the hospitals had been informed that the Government would be very glad to avail themselves of their offers, should they have occasion to do so; but the Government were making ample provision for the reception of the sick and wounded soldiers in military hospitals, and at the present moment there was accommodation for no less than 1,600 sick men on their arrival from the East.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  replied, that a second suit of clothes, which, under the ordinary regulations would have been furnished at the commencement of the financial year, namely, in April next, had already been issued. Every soldier now serving in the Crimea had received his second suit during the current financial year. With regard to the issue of the warm-weather clothing, perhaps the hon. Gentleman would be satisfied with his (Mr. Peel's) assurance that every provision would henceforth be made by the Government for clothing the troops in a manner suited to the season.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL : The Government.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL : The War Office.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that it would be irregular for him to speak on this at present, but that when they were in Committee he would do so.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, he was desirous of giving all the information in his power in answer to the questions of the hon. Member for Inverness-shire (Mr.
 1900 1901
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, the object of the warrant of promotion referred to by the noble Lord (Lord Hotham) was to enable the Crown to employ comparatively young officers in command of brigades and divisions. It was therefore decided that lieutenant colonels who bad served a certain period in command of a regiment should be promoted at once to the rank of colonel, and then be eligible to employment as a general officer. The noble Lord at the same time had called attention to the first clause of the warrant, which said that rank should be given irrespective of seniority. He (Mr. Peel) presumed that the recommendations of the Commissioners embodied in the warrant had been taken as the best test for promotion. With respect to the case mentioned by the noble Lord he would observe that a lieutenant colonel serving as equerry to the Sovereign must serve double the period required by a lieutenant colonel in command of a regiment. With regard to the questions of the hon. Member for Aylesbury, he (Mr. Peel) fully admitted their importance, and he could assure the Committee that they would receive the earnest attention of the different departments connected with the administration of the army. In reply to the question of the hon. Member for Inverness—shire (Mr. Baillie) he could state that the Board of Ordnance had given directions to establish stores at Constantinople, whence all necessaries could be procured, and although it might have been the case formerly that soldiers upon quitting hospital had not received that proper attention to which they were entitled, yet now that these stores had been established, such a thing could not occur again. As to the reorganisation of the staff, it was so large a subject, and he had been to short a time in office, that he did not feel justified in giving any answer until he had had an opportunity of consulting his noble Friend the Secretary of State for the War Department.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, he might, perhaps, be allowed to take this opportunity of making some explanation in reference to a statement made the other evening by the hon. Member for Stafford (Mr. Otway). The substance of that statement was, that two soldiers had been most severely punished for merely firing at a target representing the Emperor of Russia. Now, he (Mr. Peel) had perused the charges against these men, as well as the proceedings of the court-martial held on the occasion; but neither in the charges, the evidence, nor the finding of the court, was there the slightest allusion to the Emperor of Russia. The charges against the men were simply that they had fired away several rounds of ammunition, and had injured the barracks, the public property. The men were sentenced to various periods of imprisonment—the one, he believed, to 148 days, the other to 42 days—and the reason why a distinction was made between the cases was this, that one of the men, Gallagher, had been previously convicted three times, besides which, his general character was very bad.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, he must admit that undoubtedly the business of the War Office had greatly augmented during the past year; still that increase of business had been principally met by adding to the number of clerks—an addition amounting to between forty and fifty.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, the relations subsisting between the whole of those departments and the War Office were under consideration.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, he had not heard of any such order having been promulgated.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, in reference to the question of the hon. Member for Dungarvan, he had only to repeat his statement whilst moving the Estimates—that of the forty-two clergymen employed for the service of the army in the East, twenty-four were ministers of the Church of England, eight belonged to the Presbyterian Church, and ten were Roman Catholics. It might be that that number was insufficient for the purposes of the Roman Catholic soldiers in the East, still it was necessary to preserve some distinction between the number of clergymen of each denomination.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, the additional number of boys was 
 GENERAL PEEL  said, great complaints had been made of generals and staff officers not having learnt their duties. He understood that a camp was about to be established at Ablershott, and he would suggest that the pupils of this institution should be in some way connected with that camp, in order that they might have an opportunity of learning not only the elementary portion of their duties, but also of acting with the men who would thus he brought together. He believed that the greatest possible benefit would result from the adoption of this suggestion. He thought that lectures might be given on military subjects at the camp, at which all the officers should be invited to attend, and he trusted that many of the sergeants, who he was happy to see were receiving encouragement by promotion, would have the same opportunity. During the last war the students in the junior department at Sandhurst were allowed to hold commissions by purchase, so that a boy of thirteen might hold a commission without discharging the duties attached to it, permission being given him to pursue his studies. He thought some such system might be adopted with advantage now, and that a boy—say of fifteen—at Sandhurst, having passed a certain examination, and it being understood that he intended to devote himself to the service, should be allowed to hold a commission by purchase, and remain at the college another year in order to complete his studies. If this system were adopted they would have younger men to fill commands, and the service would, he believed, be benefited.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that the attention of the Government had been directed to both points, and he could inform the hon. and gallant Member that it was intended to call out the Irish militia as soon as arrangements could be made to provide barracks for them, without having recourse to the inconvenient and non-economical system of billeting.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  pointed out that a sum of 5,000 l.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that he did not think that the communication upon the part of the War Office, to which the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. M. Milnes) had referred, was altogether free from the objections which had been urged against it. He thought it was but right that under present circumstances every facility should be afforded to those who wished to assist our soldiers in the Crimea. At the same time it was but fair to say that the communication in question was well-meant, and the intention of the writer had been to convey the impression that the soldiers at Scutari were not in want of money. It was also right to observe that that communication had not been sent to the War Office. The only letter which had been addressed to that office had been a simple inquiry with reference to sending out a certain sum of money. He believed that every facility had been given to our soldiers to remit money, and he might
 1943 l.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  was understood to say that he was not aware of the distinction, and that the matter rested entirely with the Commander in Chief.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he had no objection to support the proposition of the hon. and gallant Member for Oxfordshire in order to extend the benefits of the college at Sandhurst. He always believed that the money paid by cadets was much greater than it ought to be. He was of opinion that the office of governor could be very well abolished. The lieutenant-governor could do all the duty that was necessary—1,000 l.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, in consequence of the Motion just made, I wish to avail myself of the opportunity of putting a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government. It has just been stated that Lord John Russell has accepted the office of one of Her Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State. The question I wish to put to the noble Lord is, whether the office which Lord John Russell has accepted is that of Secretary of State for the Colonial Department? If the noble Lord has accepted that office, I wish to ask from the noble Lord whether Lord John Russell is not about to proceed on his mission to Vienna, and, if he is about to proceed there, when it may be expected that he will return? I should be glad to know also whether there is at present any Under-Secretary of State for the Colonial Department, and also whether, in the event of the noble Lord proceeding to Vienna on the mission which he has accepted, by whom the duties of Secretary of State for the Colonies will be transacted in the absence of the noble Lord? I may venture to say that, from the limited experience I have had of the duties of that office, there can be nothing more seriously inconvenient to the transaction of public business than to have any protracted absence on the part of the Minister who holds the Seals for the Colonies. There are several colonial questions of great interest pending. I have had an interview with a gentleman who lately held a high position in the colony of Victoria, who has, at great
 1884
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, that before the noble Lord answered the question, he wished to make an observation, in consequence of an expression which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman. The hon. Gentleman had stated that the battles in the Crimea, which had reflected so much glory upon British arms, had been won by the rank and file of the British army. Now if he meant by that, that the British soldier was the most gallant, and in all respects the best material for a soldier in the world, he (Sir J. Walsh) fully agreed with him, and in that sense acknowledged that it was to the rank and file—to the valour of the British soldier—these victories were owing; but if he meant to place the soldier in a distinct from the officer, and to position say that it was owing to the soldiers and not to the officers who commanded them, then the hon. Gentleman stated that which was not only not precisely in accordance with the actual circumstances which occurred, but which was absolutely impossible to be the fact. They never found yet soldiers fight well unless they were well commanded; and, with regard to the English officers serving in the Crimea, he believed they had shown as much or more valour in the engagements which the hon. Gentleman bad mentioned than had ever been exhibited by any similar class of men in any army in the world. In the cavalry charge at Balaklava there were more officers, in proportion to the men, than was usually the case, and more casualties amongst them in proportion than generally happened under similar circumstances, in consequence of the regiments having been at the time little more than skeletons of regiments, not filled up to their full complement.
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY : Privileged, Sir, to enjoy for many years the confidence and friendship of the late lamented Member, I may, perhaps, be permitted to add one sentence to the well-deserved tribute which the noble Viscount at the head of Her Majesty's Government has paid to the memory of our departed friend. It may be justly said, that his unostentatious labours for the public good were only excelled by his private worth. Even in the arena of political strife, he never either made an enemy or lost a friend. And I would indulge the hope that the representatives of a grateful people will not suffer services at once so eminent
 1883
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said, the hospital in Dublin was very efficiently conducted, and he hoped its claims would be taken into consideration.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he thought that some provision should be made for defraying the cost of the outfits of the sergeants to whom commissions were to be given.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that the pensions proposed to be given to the Quartermaster Generals and Adjutant Generals of the army in the Crimea were to be awarded to them for good service in the face of the enemy at the battles of the Alma and Inkerman, and he did not think that giving rewards for such conduct could at all fetter the House in coming to a judgment upon the general arrangements for the management of the army made by those officers, which was to be the subject of investigation before the Select Committee of that House.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the amount of militia to be sent abroad under the Bill passed in December last would be so comparatively small as to enable the bulk of the militia to remain in the United Kingdom. There was no answering for erroneous impressions which might be made in men's minds; and it might be possible, though he had not heard of it, that some men were deterred from entering the militia by the notion that they would be sent abroad; but under the recent Act no man could be sent out unless he individually agreed to go, and therefore any such apprehensions were unfounded. With regard to another subject, namely, the holding back of some men in the hope that they would get larger bounty by and bye, as substitutes, the answer to that was the statement he had already made—that there was no intention to have recourse to the ballot; so that such persons would find themselves mistaken.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he believed that in general the clothing supplied was of good quality, but there were some cases in which it was of an inferior description. The late Secretary at War had made an arrangement by which the colonels were themselves to look after the clothing. With regard to the question of the noble Lord (Lord Lovaine), he had to state that the Government had no intention to resort to the ballot at present. Representations had been received at the Home Office of the difficulty of raising
 1938
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The Paymaster-General would have nothing to do with the accounts of the regiments.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he perfectly concurred with the hon. and gallant Member in the opinion, that every facility ought to be given to the soldiers in the East for the purpose of transmitting money to their families at home. The delays which had hitherto occurred in its transmission must, he apprehended, be attributed to the fact that at the time of application for the money being made to the War Office the regimental pay lists had not been received, and of course until that list was received, and the authorities here were thus enabled to ascertain what pay was actually due, they could not pay over the money to the applicants.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I rise to move that Mr. Speaker do issue his warrant to the Clerk of the Crown directing a new writ to issue for the election of a Com-
 1881 1882
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, Lord John Russell has accepted the office of one of Her Majesty's principal Secretaries of State. The department which he will undertake will be the Colonial Department. He proceeds, nevertheless, on his mission to Vienna, and, in the meanwhile, my right hon. Friend who lately held that office (Sir G. Grey) will undertake to be answerable that no public inconvenience arises from the temporary absence of my noble Friend. There is, as the right hon. Baronet well knows, a permanent Under-Secretary and a permanent Assistant Under Secretary. The political Under Secretary is not yet named, but he will be appointed in a very short time. It is impossible for me to state the precise period when my noble Friend will return, but I have no reason for supposing, whichever way the negotiation terminates, that my noble Friend's absence will be so protracted as the right hon. Baronet appears to anticipate.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the battles in question were won by the rank and file in the manner explained by the hon. Baronet—namely, that the dogged
 1890
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL said, his attention had been directed to the preparation of a measure relating to the jurisdiction of the Ecclesiastical Courts, but it had been impossible for the Government, by reason of recent occurrences, to consider the subject sufficiently to enable him as yet to lay any measure upon the subject
 1974
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL said, he had already answered that question. It was desired by the framers of the Bill to accomplish the object which the hon. Gentleman had in view—namely, that probate in England should have the same effect as probate in Scotland, and  vice versâ.
 MR. GLADSTONE said, as this was a question in which the hon. Member who had just resumed his seat had thought fit
 1992 "The cause for which he (Mr. Kennedy) was dismissed was only made an excuse for his dismissal. The real cause was his being too active and too zealous for certain Members of the Government." 1993
 MR. GLADSTONE said, he now found that the hon. Gentleman did not stand by his words. He would read them again—
 "The cause for which Mr. Kennedy was dismissed was only made an excuse for his dismissal. The real cause was his being too active and too zealous for certain Members of the Government."
 MR. GLADSTONE said, he begged the House to observe that the hon. Gentleman had given him no answer to his question. He wished to know whether or not the hon. Member would abide by the words he had used in his speech, and he put him off with an account of a conversation got at second-hand from Mr. Wilson.
 MR. GLADSTONE said, he was obliged to the hon. Gentleman for the correction. The hon. Gentleman's version of the conversation was, that in the month of July he (Mr. Gladstone) told the hon. Gentleman that, in consequence of a certain Motion which had been given for an inquiry into the case of Mr. Kennedy, it would be a very difficult matter for the Government to make an appointment to the office. Now, he would appeal to any Member of that
 2003 2004 2005 "I can entertain no doubt as to the course which it will eventually become my duty to pursue, as regards Mr. Higinbothom, founded on the facts which are at present known to myself, altogether independent of the statements which may be made by Mr. Brown, but which will, no doubt, augment the number and decisive character of the facts connected with this subject." "Sir,—I must express my regret that, before communicating to the Lords of the Treasury such serious imputations against my veracity as are contained in your report of the 26th ultimo, you did not state to me the doubts that had arisen in your mind. I beg leave respectfully to observe, if you had done so, I should have been enabled to show that, from a misconception of some important facts, you had been led to form erroneous conclusions, and I should, have no doubt, have satisfied you that there is no ground whatever for the grave charges you have brought against me." 2006 usque ad nauseam, "In conclusion, permit me most respectfully to remind you that, among the injurious expressions which you have officially placed upon record in your report to the Lords of the Treasury (which document, I may add, you have requested may be printed), the terms 'deceptive,' 'fraudulent and untrue,' 'unscrupulous,' and 'the reverse of facts,' have been applied to statements which I have proved to be perfectly accurate. You have also made a distinct intimation to their Lordships that 'it is no longer possible to place the slightest reliance on any statement' which I make; that I have been guilty of a 'suppression of facts,' and that I have made a 'daring attempt to impose upon you.' These statements, you will allow me to observe, were submitted to their Lordships without my being afforded any opportunity of explanation on any points on which you might have misapprehended my former report. I have to add that I must request you to convey to the Lords of the Treasury an expression of my deep gratitude for having afforded me the present opportunity of refuting the charges which have been brought against me, charges which I must now respectfully request that you will withdraw." 2007 primâ facie 2008 "Mr. Kennedy charges Mr. Higinbothom, in this instance, with suppressing the fact that the inclosure was thinned in 1853. Mr. Higinbothom here admits that about twelve or fourteen acres of that part of this inclosure to which his averages of 100 trees to the acre applied were thinned in 1853, but denies that such thinning could have affected the question between him and Mr. Brown as to averages. This inclosure is divided also by Mr. Brown into two divisions; the first where the land is 'good loam and dry,' and the second where the land is 'inferior and naturally damp.' It is to the first of these divisions Mr. Higinbothom's averages are intended to apply: of this division we have ascertained that a detached portion of about fourteen acres was thinned in 1853, but, on a close inspection, we are led to the conclusion that the large portion remaining unthinned presents a fair average of what the whole was on Mr. Brown's first visit." "Which opinion is corroborated by the second report of Mr. Brown, where he, notwithstanding the thinning of 1853, increases his average number of trees and decreases his average diameter." "It may be inferred, from what we have already stated in the foregoing particular instances, that we consider the average number of trees standing on the acre as represented by Mr. Higinbothom in his report of December, 1853, was not in any material degree affected by the operation of thinning, which took place between the date of his report and the previous report of Mr. Brown. We agree that, in all such cases as these, no facts whatever should be suppressed, but we are decidedly of opinion that a practical man could not have been misled by the suppression in these cases, and we therefore believe that, while Mr. Higinbothom's silence on this point might well call for inquiry by Mr. Kennedy, such suppression ought not to be characterised as 'culpable.' We ourselves should not have been misled; and the circumstance that Mr. Brown, in his second report, has generally increased his average number of trees, and decreased his average diameter, comes in proof that Mr. Higinbothom's general averages had not been either reduced in number or increased in size by such partial thinnings." 2009 2010 primâ facie 2011
 LORD STANLEY said, that it was never easy to answer a speech of the right hon. Gentleman the late Chancellor of the Exchequer. That task—a difficult one at all times—became doubly difficult in the absence of the right hon. Gentleman. He hoped, however, that if he should unintentionally misrepresent the words of the right hon. Gentleman, that some of those hon. Members who, during the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, had expressed their agreement with the opinions therein set forth, would at once interpose to correct him. He must, in the first instance, premise, that he had no private or peculiar information on the case in dispute, but, on the other hand, he might claim to stand between the two parties as one entirely unprejudiced. Of Mr. Kennedy he knew nothing. He readily admitted the great talents and high character of the right hon. Gentleman who last addressed them, but he thought that the right hon. Gentleman, in his reply, had trusted to the weight of his character and talents to overbear something like a deficiency of evidence. The charge did not seem to him to be one of a personal nature against the right hon. Gentleman, but against a public department. That department had committed a grievous injustice against an individual. He had said that it was not a charge against the character of the late Chancellor of the Exchequer. But the right hon. Gentleman, after the statement of the hon. Baronet (Sir J. Shelley)—which did not err from want of candour—turned round, and, without giving a moment for consideration, asked the hon. Baronet if he meant to accuse him of corruption or dishonesty; for that, if the hon. Baronet did and would reduce the charge to writing, he (the right hon. Gentleman) would
 2012 2013 2014 ex parte, 2015 "Their Lordships seems to have considered it becoming to nominate the jury and send my case for trial before it, not morely without my acquiescence, but without informing me of their intention until it was executed; and thus a Privy Councillor and a head of a department was, without notice, brought to trial on a question, stated to be one affecting his veracity, his integrity, and his honour, before a jury nominated by those with whom he had recently been engaged in warm disputes." 2016
 MR. GLADSTONE said, he begged pardon—from Mr. Kennedy. Now, his answer to the hon. Gentleman was, that Mr. Kennedy was not dismissed by the Secretary of the Treasury. He (Mr. Gladstone) was the man who was then responsible to the House of Commons for the management of the Crown estates; and though his hon. Friend (Mr. Wilson) was one of the most upright, most able, and most indefatigable men he ever had the good fortune to know in the public service, yet he was not the man who dismissed Mr. Kennedy. He (Mr. Gladstone)
 1994 1995 "A great mistake has been made in taking so much old timber in the last few years, when the price was low, and the timber could be purchased at lower rates from other sources. The plea has been, that much of the timber had arrived at maturity, and would deteriorate in value. This also is a mistake; wood which arrives at maturity in two or three centuries would suffer no deterioration for forty or fifty years." 1996 1997 Vict. 1998 1999 "Have you any precedent for such a proceeding? If the House addresses the Crown for the appointment of Sir John Claridge, and the Crown confers upon him an appointment, who will be responsible for the appointment to the House?" 2000 2001 "That it is constitutional and agreeable to usage for the House of Commons to declare their sense and opinion respecting the exercise of any discretionary power which, whether by Act of Parliament or otherwise, is vested in any body of men whatever for the public service." 2002
 LORD SEYMOUR said, he thought it necessary, as he had the honour to hold the office of Chief Commissioner of the Woods and Forests in 1850, to say a few
 2023 2024 2025
 MR. COWAN said, he wished to ask the hon. and learned Solicitor General a question on the same subject—namely, whether in the proposed Bill, or by means of a separate Bill for Scotland, if necessary, care would be taken that confirmation granted in Scotland should have equal validity and authority with one probate or letters of administration over the entire property of a deceased person, in whatever part of Her Majesty's dominions it might be situated.
 MR. CAYLEY said, he wished to kn w if the words included Mr. Kennedy?
 MR. STRUTT said, he wished to state that the point on which Mr. Kennedy and his friends bad felt most strongly was the imputation which, in their opinion, was thrown on his honour by the Treasury minute, by his dismissal, and by the mode of that dismissal. In the investigation which took place it was stated that the veracity, honour, and integrity of the parties concerned was involved; and, when the three gentlemen made their report to the Treasury, the result was that Mr. Kennedy was dismissed. It necessarily followed that Mr. Kennedy and his friends looked on the result of that inquiry as an imputation on his honour. The late Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated expressly that, with respect to Mr. Kennedy's honour and veracity, the fullest reparation had been offered to his friends. Now, he was authorised by the friends of Mr. Kennedy to state that, in their opinion, no such reparation had been offered, and
 2026
 MR. HADFIELD said, he begged to ask the hon. and learned Solicitor General whether it was intended during the present Session to introduce a Bill to abolish Ecclesiastical Courts, or to transfer the testamentary jurisdiction thereof to any other court, and to make one probate of will or grant of administration of sufficient binding authority over the entire property of any deceased person in all parts of the United Kingdom, the Colonies, or elsewhere, within the dominions of the Crown?
 MR. DRUMMOND said, he knew as little, and perhaps less, of the rules of the Civil Service than the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn; but he was certain of this, that if in the civil, naval, or military services, the heads of departments were not to be responsible for their servants, all government was impossible. He objected to this Motion on two grounds—first, because it interfered with the Executive Government; and secondly, because it tended to usurp for the House of Commons the power of the Executive; and introduced a personal debate which he and other Members, he doubted not, would gladly avoid. The hon. Baronet (Sir J. Shelley) had alluded so much to the Committee he (Mr. Drummond) had moved for last year, that it became necessary that he should give a
 2017 2018 Deodara de-haut-en-bas 2019
 MR. WHITESIDE said, it was stated that the honour, the veracity, and the integrity of Mr. Kennedy had not been impugned. He (Mr. Whiteside) would, however, read the minute referred to in the manly speech of the right hon. Member for Nottingham (Mr. Strutt), and the House would judge for themselves. [The hon. Member then read the passage in question, which was to the effect that the
 2030
 MR. WILSON said, that the words "honour, veracity, and integrity" occurred in the Treasury Minute containing the instructions to the referees, and were applied to the transactions between all the parties.
 MR. WILSON said, in the sense in which they were used, Mr. Kennedy was certainly included. The words did not occur either in the letter of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, or in any subsequent Minute.
 MR. WILSON said, that, after the personal allusions made to him in the course of this debate, he considered that it was incumbent on him to offer a few remarks before the House went to a division. In the first place, he would observe upon the allegation that Mr. Kennedy had been charged by the Treasury with a want of veracity, integrity, and honour. Now, on his own behalf, and on that of every Member of the Government with whom he had communicated, being perfectly acquainted also, not only with the public, but private correspondence which had taken place between the Government and the friends of Mr. Kennedy, he begged to state in the most explicit manner that no charge of that kind had been made, but that, on the contrary, any such charge had been distinctly disavowed. The grounds of justification for the discharge of Mr. Kennedy resolved themselves into this—that that, gentleman had not the temper, had not the manner, had not the power of so governing the large establishment intrusted to his charge as to conduce to the public advantage; beyond that no one had ever pressed any charge against him. The hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Malins) had insinuated that the mind of the Chancellor of the Exchequer had been poisoned by imputations cast upon Mr. Kennedy by him (Mr. Wilson), but all who knew the right hon. Gentleman would know that he possessed too great habits of industry and too great conscientiousness to allow himself to be influenced by the opinions of any other person when the character of an individual was at stake. So far, however, from his (Mr. Wilson's) mind being biassed against Mr. Kennedy, the fact was, that, when he went to die Treasury, he bad gone there with every feeling in favour of that gentleman, and during the whole of the discussion, though it was his duty to hold the balance evenly, at the Treasury, between a gentleman holding the high office
 2027 ex parte 2028 2029 primâ facie
 MR. WILSON said, that he had that day made inquiry into the subject of the hon. Member's question, and that he had found the facts of the case to be as follows:—When the minute of the 10th of May had been passed, Mr. Kennedy had written a letter to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, mentioning that he considered the minute tantamount to a dismissal from his office, and that it became the duty of the Lords of the Treasury to determine what course they should take under the circumstances. A notice of Motion for a Select Committee upon the subject of the management of Woods and Forests had at the time stood upon the paper in the name of the hon. Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond). The Government had not felt that they would be justified in at once filling up the vacancy in the face of the proposed inquiry. Two or three months had elapsed before that inquiry had taken place, and other circumstances had since that time taken place which prevented the situation from being filled up, up to the present moment. In order to provide for the proper discharge of the duties of the department in the interim, the Government had been advised not to revoke the appointment of Mr. Kennedy, until a patent should be drawn up nominating his successor. A formal dismissal of Mr. Kennedy, therefore, had not appeared to the Government to be the proper course to pursue. Another difficulty had also arisen in the matter, in connection with the Act of Parliament under the operation of which the office was held. That Act ordered two Commissioners of Woods and Forests to be appointed; but it gave the power to the Lords of the Treasury to allocate to each of those two Commissioners whatever portion of the duties of the office they deemed desirable. The Act, however, did not empower the Treasury to order that the whole of the duties should he discharged by any one Commissioner. The Government had, therefore, been unable for two reasons to abolish Mr. Kennedy's office in May last. The consequence had been, that although that gentleman had practically ceased to perform the duties of his office, yet, upon the allocation of the duties of the department, the manor of Lyndhurst, to which no real duties were attached, had been left in his name, as one of the Commissioners of
 1977
 MR. BLAND said, he wished to ask the hon. Secretary of the Treasury whether, notwithstanding the Treasury minute of the 10th of May last, wherein the First Lord of the Treasury and the Chancellor of the Exchequer were stated to have considered the office theretofore held by Mr. Kennedy vacant, and notwithstanding Mr. Kennedy's own letter mentioning himself as having been dismissed from such
 1976
 MR. MALINS said, he did not think it was any disparagement to Mr. Kennedy to be connected with the Whigs, if his marriage with the daughter of the late Sir Samuel Romilly was supposed to constitute that connection. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) appeared very indignant at the manner in which the hon. Baronet (Sir J. Shelley) had brought forward this question; but he (Mr. Malins) thought it had been introduced in a spirit of moderation and fairness. It was his opinion that throughout the whole of this transaction the late Chancellor of the Exchequer had acted in a hasty, unfeeling, and most inconsiderate manner towards a public servant of long standing. The right hon. Gentleman had said, that unless this arbitrary power of summarily dismissing subordinate servants were vested in the responsible Ministers of the Crown, the public service could not be carried on. All he could say was, that if that were to be the condition in which the subordinate servants of the Crown were to be placed—if every man holding office was liable to be dismissed at any moment by the Chancellor of the Exchequer—then, for his part, he should never be ambitious to hold office in the service of his country. But the right hon. Gentleman seemed conscious that he was treading on tender ground, and appeared to feel that any Minister's exercising such a power would not be tolerated by the House, because he had evidently taken some pains to impress upon the House that the dismissal of Mr. Kennedy was not his individual act, but that it was the joint act of two Ministers of the Crown; and he endeavoured to make the House understand that the Earl of Aberdeen, who was then Prime Minister, had concurred in the dismissal of Mr. Kennedy. But what said the great corrector of errors—dates? The letter of dismissal was dated the 29th of April, 1854. Mr. Kennedy, finding himself at the age of sixty-five years, and after thirty years' public service, dismissed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer by his letter of the 29th of April, on the 2nd of May (three days after his letter of dismissal) wrote to the Earl of Aberdeen. The Earl of Aberdeen answered Mr. Kennedy on the 9th of May, and the best evidence of the extent to which the Earl of
 2020 2021 2022 l. l.
 MR. SPOONER said, he wished to know which of the Commissioners it was who had laid the evidence before Dr. Cullen, and also whether, in so doing, he had had the concurrence of his fellow Commissioners?
 MR. SPOONER said, he wished to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government when the Report of the Maynooth Commissioners was likely to be laid upon the table of the House, and whether he was aware of the fact—for such he (Mr. Spooner) knew it to be—that a portion, if not the whole, of the evidence contained in the Report, had been already submitted to Dr. Cullen? He should wish also to know by whom and upon whose authority that evidence had been so furnished to Dr. Cullen?
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY said, that what the right hon. Gentleman really said was this—that in consequence of his (Sir J. Shelley's) Motion there would be a difficulty in filling up the appointment.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY said, he would now move for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the cause and justification of the removal of the right hon. Thomas Francis Kennedy from the office of Woods, Forests, and Land Revenues of the Crown. He thought it would have been much better if the hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Treasury had postponed his reply to the question which had just been put to him until he (Sir J. Shelley) had placed before the House the whole of the circumstances relating to the case. Mr. Kennedy complained not so much of his removal from the office which he had filled as of his having been declared guilty of want of veracity, integrity, and honour, and it was therefore incumbent upon the House to give him an opportunity of vindicating himself from the aspersions which had been cast upon him. Why that gentleman had been allowed to draw a salary of 1,200 l. l. 1978 1979 l. l., 1980 l. l., 1981 1982 1983 "Where, then, is the truth of Mr. Higinbothom's contradiction founded? On a suppression of an all-important fact, quite of sufficient magnitude to account for the whole difference between Mr. Brown's assertion and Mr. Higinbothom's contradiction. Mr. Higinbothom's contradiction is at once utterly discredited and set aside by the simple statement of these circumstances, and it is no longer possible to place the slightest reliance on any statement which he makes." "It is not my intention to advert to those parts of Mr. Higinbothom's report which consist of controversial opinion and discussion, because where I find an entire absence of fidelity in the statement of facts, I will not stoop to reason or to discuss. I consider Mr. Higinbothom to have made a daring attempt to impose upon me, and to blast the reputation of Mr. Brown; and it seems to me that the attempt must recoil upon himself; and that he must eventually find it to have been a most perilous proceeding… I entirely acquit Mr. Clutton of having any participation in such statements as have been made; and, although Mr. Higinbothom identifies himself with Mr. Clutton's opinions in forest management, there is no blame to be attached to a difference of opinion, while there can be but one opinion with respect to statements, purporting to be facts, but which are the reverse of facts, and which are intended to deceive in one quarter and to destroy character in another." 1984 "If I felt that I had done injustice to Mr. Higinbothom, no one would be more ready than myself to acknowledge it, and to state both to your Lordships and to Mr. Higinbothom that I regretted that I should have done so; but I am unable to satisfy myself that any such case has arisen, and, therefore, I shall proceed to state, as briefly as I can, some of the grounds on which I formed the opinions which I still entertain. I consider that Mr. Higinbothom's report of the 29th of December was eminently calculated to deceive and mislead me, or any one who should peruse it. It did deceive and mislead me, and it is impossible for me now to say that that impression is removed from my mind by all that Mr. Higinbothom has stated in his paper of the 14th of February." 1985 Rejected Addresses "Did none attempt, before he fell, To succour one they lov'd so well? Yes. Higginbothom did aspire; His Fireman's soul was all on fire. What are they 'feard on? Fools! 'od rot em!' Were the last words of Higginbothom." 1986 1987 1988 [Laughter] 1989 l. 1990 9. "The late Commissioner, Mr. Kennedy, seems to have made a proper distinction between sums expended in gathering in the crop of timber
 1991 10. "It is to be regretted that he sent a stranger of very limited experience to examine and report upon the state of the forest, without apprising either the Treasury or the local surveyors—a measure which, as it implied a censure on their conduct, was sure to excite unpleasant feelings, and generate hostility against anything that he might recommend; but your Committee are convinced that it requires no less energy, activity, and vigilance, than were displayed by Mr. Kennedy to insure the proper management of the forests, and to suppress abuses as they arise." "Although the Committee consider that it is not within their order of reference, still they consider it due to Mr. Kennedy to state that, though his proceedings may be open to objection, he has evinced much zeal, energy, and vigilance, in the execution of his office." "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into and consider the grounds and justification of the removal of the right hon. Thomas Francis Kennedy from the Office of Woods, Forests, and Land Revenues of the Crown."
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY : Would the right hon. Gentleman grant him a Committee?
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY : No—from Mr. Kennedy.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY said, he had certainly been informed of a conversation which passed between Mr. Kennedy and the right hon. Gentleman in the presence of the Secretary to the Treasury, in which Mr. Kennedy informed the Chancellor of the Exchequer that, up to a certain time, Mr. Wilson, the Secretary to the Treasury, had been favourable and friendly towards him, but that he had stated to him he could not act as he was doing, because persons of influence in the Government and out of the Government, in Parliament and out of Parliament, had come to him and expressed their disapprobation of his conduct.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY in reply, said, that all Mr. Kennedy desired was to have his honour and character cleared from the accusation and slur which had been cast upon it by the Treasury Minute. The noble Lord (Lord Palmerston) said, there was no intention of impugning the honour or integrity of Mr. Kennedy, yet, while that Minute existed, it would continue to be read when the words of the noble Lord were forgotten. If the noble Lord would give him (Sir J. Shelley) a promise or an assurance that the Minute to which he referred would be rescinded, and another introduced, showing that there was no intention to cast any reflection upon the honour and integrity of Mr. Kennedy, he would not press the motion to a division.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY said, as Mr. Kennedy's object would be attained by such an acknowledgment, he would not press his Motion to a division.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON said, he could quite understand that those persons who were interested by friendship and long acquaintance with Mr. Kennedy were anxious to bring forward a discussion in that House for the purpose of vindicating his character from any aspersions which they might conceive to have been cast upon it with regard to his honour, integrity, and veracity. He was sure, however, that no one who knew Mr. Kennedy would for one instant impute to him anything which could reflect upon his honour, his veracity, or his character. What had passed in this discussion ought to be satisfactory upon those points, and lie hoped that those who had brought on the debate would feel that Mr. Kennedy came out of it with his character and honour clear from all imputation. He thought the hon. Member for Westminster (Sir J. Shelley) ought to he content with the result of the discussion, and he would recommend the House to consider seriously the consequences which might ensue from the establishment of such a precedent as that now sought to be established. It would in his (Lord Palmerston's) opinion strike at the very foundation of the Civil Service of the country. It would reduce that Civil Service to a state of anarchy, and would cause the greatest public inconvenience. He could well understand that if a Minister of the Crown had appointed a person whom Parliament thought unfit for the appointment, that question might be a fit subject for the House to inquire into, because the House, as the guardian of the public interests, was entitled to interpose to prevent the appointment of an improper
 2031
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I do not know how the object of my hon. Friend is technically to be accomplished; but I apprehend that that which now stands on the record cannot be offensive, and I have no objection whatever to state that I will engage that there shall he placed on record in the Treasury a full acknowledgment that Mr. Kennedy's honour stands perfectly unimpeached.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON said, that the Report was now nearly in print; that
 1975
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON said, that the concurrence of the entire body of Commissioners had, in taking that step, neither been asked nor given. The communication upon the subject of the ecclesiastical discipline of the college had naturally been made by a Roman Catholic member of the Commission.
 MR. H. T. LIDDELL  said, he could not avoid adverting to the absence of the greater part of the Members of the Government from the Treasury bench, the right hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone (Sir B. Hall) excepted, and to the disrespect which that showed to the House and to the measure under discussion. He should move the adjournment of the debate until it should suit the convenience of the Ministry to attend.
 MR. H. T. LIDDELL  said, after the explanation which had been given by the right hon. Baronet, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 THE MARQUESS OF BLANDFORD  said, he disclaimed doing anything by the Bill which would at all prejudice the interests of the lessees, and he asserted that no clause in it would fairly bear such an interpretation. He was ready to adopt the suggestion made on the part of the Government by the right hon. Baronet (Sir B. Hall), and, if the Bill was now read a second time, to fix the Committee for Wednesday, the 23rd May.
 THE MARQUESS OF BLANDFORD  said, that in requesting the House to agree to the second reading of the Bill, he need not remind hon. Members how important the measure was, how many interests it affected, how wide was its scope, and how serious the results, either for good or evil, which would arise form it. He would, first of all, advert to some remarks which he had heard objecting that the present time, when the country was engaged in an arduous and perilous contest, was not the most fitting occasion for considering a measure of this nature. In his opinion, the present was peculiarly the time when it behoved them to set their house in order, to attend to the spiritual interests of the nation, and to endeavour to bring down the favour of God upon the people of this country. He was not now, for the first time, asking the House to agree to the second reading of this measure, for he had already twice before this introduced a Bill for these purposes. In the first instance he had introduced a Bill, the second reading of which was not pressed, owing to the lateness of the Session; in the second, the House had gone so far as to sanction the principle of the Bill by reading it a second time.
 2033 "I consider the main intention of the Bill, which, by giving to the t lurch Estates Commission the administration of the property from which the income of the bishops is derived, is very sound in principle, and one which will tend not only to the improvement of the property, but will be more becoming than the present system to the dignity of the bishops, and will give them the means necessary to the discharge of their duties, which are becoming more and more extensive every day in their respective dioceses," "It is obvious that a person coming into possession of an hereditary estate may make provision for the management of that estate, and may sacrifice his income for some years to improve it for the subsequent benefit of himself and his successors, knowing that his children will in the end reap the advantage; but for a bishop to sacrifice his income when, perhaps, the enjoyment of his bishopric may not extend beyond four or five years, is, perhaps, too much to expect. I think, therefore, that the giving of a fixed income, to be paid by the Commissioners who shall have the management of the lands, is so great an improvement upon the present system that on account of that provision alone, if the question were one of affirming or denying the principle of the Bill, I should be prepared to give my vote in favour of it." 2034 2035 l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 2036 l., l. l/ 2037 2038 l. Will. l. Vict., 2039 l l imperium in imperio, 2040 l l l l l 2041 2042 2043
 MR. H. G. LIDDELL  said, that while giving the fullest credit to the noble Lord for the exertions he had made and the time he had devoted to the subject which he had brought so frequently before the notice of the House, he still felt it to be his conscientious duty to give his most strenuous opposition to the Bill, and to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. It was his conviction that the principle of the Bill was opposed to the whole tenour of our cathedral institutions and was highly dangerous to the integrity of those institutions. The noble Lord appeared to have changed the opinion he entertained not long ago on the propriety of legislating upon this subject, for in the Report of the Commissioners on Cathedral Institutions, published last year, there were these words:—
 "Although we are well persuaded that great benefits might accrue from judicious reforms being introduced into these institutions, yet we feel that great prejudices may arise from premature legislation on the subject." 2044 l l 2045 2046 2047 l., l. 2048
 MR. HEADLAM  seconded the Amendment, and in doing so he said it was his strong opinion that the House ought upon this occasion to deal in a decided manner with the Bill brought forward by the noble Lord, and not act as it had done when the Bill was before the House on previous occasions—give their assent to the principle which it involved, and then take no further step in the matter. It was his opinion that a Bill of this nature ought only to be brought forward by the Government, and should not be left in the hands of any private individual. It was his opinion that, if this Bill were passed, we should have an institution in the State possessed of the most gigantic and tyrannical powers. The law in its present state was characterised by the greatest confusion. They had already connected with the Church Ecclesiastical Commissioners, Cathedral Commissioners, and he did not know how many other Commissioners. If there was to be a body to exercise powers such as were
 2049
 MR. COWPER  said, he must complain that the two hon. Gentlemen behind him (Mr. Hadfield and Mr. Duncombe) had taken advantage of a technical proceeding of the House to prevent the further consideration of the Bill. They complained of abuses in the management of the church property, but he thought that was the conduct of men who rather wished to maintain than to reform abuses, and was not a fair way of opposing the Bill.
 THE MARQUESS OF BLANDFORD  said, the House were asked to agree to the second reading on the distinct pledge that the House should not go into Committee until after the Cathedral Commission should have made its Report.
 MR. BENTINCK,  in moving that "the name of Sir George Tyler be substituted in lieu of the name of Sir George Cornewall Lewis in the Army before Sebastopol Committee," said, he must express a regret that the House had not thought fit upon a former occasion to sanction the Motion of his right hon. Friend the Member for Tyrone (Mr. Corry), to place upon the Committee the name of the hon. and gallant Member for Bath (Captain Scobell), because, if they had thought proper to sanction that Motion, there would have been no necessity that he (Mr. Bentinck) should trouble the House on the present occasion. He wished it to be understood that he had no intention of impugning the Committee as it now stood, but, as they would have in the course of their inquiry to cross-examine professional men, whose cha-
 2061
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, he thought his noble Friend must have been much gratified at all the praises and all the credit he had received for his laudable efforts and intentions, but he thought his noble Friend would have been much better pleased if some of those hon. Friends of his had suggested a means of rendering the measure practicable and carrying it out. The Bill had received the sanction of the House last Session, and his noble Friend had stated that he was prepared to agree to the amendments that had been suggested. He thought it was quite inconsistent in the Dissenters in that House making objections to a measure for the improvement of these estates. The abuses of the present system were acknowledged; the Bill was intended to remedy these abuses, and he hoped the House would not stultify themselves now by rejecting a measure which they had on a former occasion sanctioned.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he felt called upon to oppose the Bill. It was looked on with great suspicion by a large
 2057
 MR. MIALL  said, he was inclined to support the Bill, in so far as its object was to make the property of the Church of England more available for the purposes to which it ought to be devoted than it now was. He would vote for the second reading if the only principle to be affirmed was, that the management of the revenues of the Church ought to be transferred into other hands, to be made more available for the purposes to which they ought to be applied; but the noble Marquess went further, and specified the exact way in which he proposed to attain these objects. He thought it was not a proper time for an individual Member to take up a subject of so much importance. At that moment they scarcely had a Government, or, at
 2058
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he might now move the adjournment of the House, but, acting on the advice of friends, he refrained from doing so, and would allow the question to go to a division on the
 2059
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he should certainly oppose the withdrawal of the Amendment. He submitted that the debate should be adjourned, seeing that the House was not then in a condition to give the subject under discussion the consideration which it deserved. It had long been, and still was, his opinion that the acts and delinquencies of the dignitaries of the Church of England were a disgrace and scandal, not only to that Church itself, but to the country at large. He had heard it said that if transactions such as those to which those dignitaries were sometimes parties were carried on by any mercantile man in the City, he would not dare to show his face on the Stock Exchange. He would take the sense of the House whether they were then in a condition to legislate on this question.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he also thought it most desirable that a naval officer should be a member of this Com-
 2062 l
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, he thought the Motion of the hon. Member for adjourning the debate was unreasonable, seeing at this crisis that the time of the Members of the Government was better occupied than in attending a debate of this kind, and that in the earlier part of the discussion the leading Members of the Opposition were also absent from the House.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he hoped that when this important Bill was again brought before the House there would be some person present on the part of the Government to discuss its principles. He was surprised to hear that an arrangement had been made between the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department and the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General for Ireland, to allow this Bill to pass, when in the Committee that sat upon it the First Lord of the Treasury stated that he objected to the principles of the Bill, as the most extraordinary he had ever heard of.
 MR. ROEBUCK : There is a preliminary question, Sir, in this matter which the House ought to consider. Let us clearly understand the circumstances under which the Committee was appointed. It was appointed under an agreement between myself and the noble Lord at the head of the Government. [ Cries of 2063
 MR. HENLEY  said, he had not the least objection to vote for the second reading of the Bill, being understood thereby that he only meant to affirm the principle of putting the management of the church property into a better state than it was at present. So far as he understood the Bill, it did not at all deal with the surplus of the property, but only with its administration. It was only natural that the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Hadfield), and those who thought with him, should seek to keep on a very convenient blister with regard to this subject. With respect to the provisions of the Bill, many of them would require great alterations. He did not at all enter into the alarm as to the lessees that seemed to have been taken. He thought their interests were pretty well guarded by this Bill, and that the property of the Church itself stood a great deal more risk than the property of the lessees. Guarding himself against being supposed to assent to the provisions in the Bill with respect to the general management of the estates, he was willing to give his assent to the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he would give notice that he should inquire whether the Members of the Government would be content to support the portion of the Bill that constitutes the tenants' compensation part of it, as well as the remaining portion of it.
 MR. HEYWORTH  said, he also should oppose the Bill. The only remedy for these evils that would satisfy the country would be to sell the entire of the church property, and invest the proceeds in the funds; there would then be no room for mismanagement, and the land would get into the hands of parties who would cultivate it properly.
 MR. WIGRAM  said, he would admit that it was of importance that something should be done with reference to these estates, in order to place them under improved management. Upon that principle all were agreed. He believed they were at present in a most anomalous and unsatisfactory state, and so far as that went he was perfectly ready to acquiesce in the Bill of the noble Marquess. He decidedly objected, however, to handing over these estates to a London board. All the experience he had had of these central boards did not give him the least confidence in their management, and he viewed such a proposal with anxiety and alarm. The second objection he had to the measure
 2055
 MR. SPOONER  said, the property of the Church as much belonged to the Church as did the property of any Member of that House belong to that Member; and he must say a more revolutionary speech he had never heard than that of the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Hadfield). If they took away the title by which church property was held, he would ask whose property would be safe? He was prepared to vote for the second reading of this Bill,
 2053
 MR. INGHAM  said, he deprecated this Bill being further proceeded with at this particular time. His great objection to the measure was, that they should introduce any novel legislation at all after the subject had undergone a full examination last year, and a Bill had been passed on the subject for a limited time, with the view to encourage voluntary treaties between the holders of church property and their ecclesiastical landlords. The great mass of the leaseholders in the country and also the ecclesiastical bodies felt the utmost repugnance to renew a discussion on this subject year after year, and to
 2050
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Serjeant Shee) would not press the second reading, as the Bill had not been yet delivered.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, "a revolutionary speech" might have been made by his hon. Friend (Mr. Hadfield) in the eyes of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner); but if it was revolutionary, he was afraid the people of this country were in a state of revolution. He was satisfied, however, that the great body of the people agreed and acquiesced in the sentiments expressed by his hon. Friend (Mr. Hadfield). In assenting to the second reading of this Bill, they affirmed its principle. His right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Health, not having much to do in that capacity, had taken the health of the Church under his care, and had recommended the House to allow the Bill to be read a second time. Now, he (Mr. T. Duncombe) opposed the second reading of the Bill of last Session, and he saw now no reason whatever for receding from that vote. He voted against it, because it went to bolster up a bad system. If they passed this Bill, the Church Establishment in its present bad state would remain long after them. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Spooner) had asserted that church property was the property of the Church. That was one of the great objections which he (Mr. Duncombe) had to this Bill. He maintained that church property was public property; and the only thing that would make this Bill palatable to the people would be that church repairs should be paid out of the funds of the Church. If church property was the property of the Church, why did not the Church repair its property at its own expense, instead of taxing the people for that purpose? They might adjourn the debate if they liked; but if they went to a division now he would vote against
 2054
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he would agree to postpone the second reading of the Bill on the understanding that the measure should receive at an early period the consideration which his hon. and learned Friend said would be given to it, so that legislation on the subject should take place this Session. It was desirable that the Government should as soon as possible make up their minds, and say whether they would oppose the measure or approve of it. If they approved of the Bill, let them adopt it, or introduce it in such a form as would secure the passing of it through the House this Session.
 MR. BARROW  said, he felt himself bound to oppose the second reading, as no regard was had in it to the local necessities of the place from which the property had come. He objected also to placing all this property in the hands of a central board, and he thought the rights of the lessees, which had been entirely overlooked, were entitled to some consideration. It was high time that the question was settled, but this measure would not effect it, as every one of its details were considered objectionable.
 MR. DEEDES  said, he felt some difficulty with respect to this question. He had no desire to prevent the arrangement to which the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Roebuck) had referred being carried out; at the same time he thought it most desirable that a naval officer should be upon the Committee. Of the two objects, he felt himself bound upon the whole to regard the latter as of the greater importance, and he should therefore support the Motion.
 MR. KEOGH  said, he must deny that he had said that there was any arrangement entered into between the Secretary for the Home Department and the hon. and learned Gentleman who had charge of the Bill.
 MR. KEOGH  said, that his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department was quite willing that the Bill should receive a second reading. 2060
 MR. KEOGH  said, he trusted that his hon. and learned Friend who had charge of the Bill would not then press the second reading of it. There were many important provisions contained in it, and it was desirable that the Secretary for Ireland should have an opportunity of looking over them.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, he had not the slightest desire to press it, if the Bill was not in the hands of hon. Members.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE : If the second reading be opposed seriously, I am quite willing to postpone it; but is there any serious opposition to it?
 SIR B. HALL  said, it was true, as his hon. Friend the Member for Kerry had suggested, that Her Majesty's Ministers were endeavouring to answer the question put by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire the other night, "Who are we?" and, he believed, they were at this moment engaged in taking the necessary steps for completing the arrangements for the formation of a Government. The proposition made by the noble Lord the Member of Woodstock (the Marquess of Blandford) in the Bill of last Session was to take out of the hands of the ecclesiastical corporations, both sole and aggregate, the property now held by them for the purpose of making it more valuable and of applying it to more useful purposes. The alterations which the noble Lord proposed to make by the present Bill did not appear to him to be satisfactory. It was to this effect—that the property should, as originally proposed, be placed under the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, and that the Commissioners should afterwards return to the capitular bodies such an amount of property as would pay the charges of the Cathedral Establishments. He thought it better that the whole property should be placed under the management of one Commission. No doubt, the change which was contemplated to be made by this measure was a great one as regarded the property of the Church, and he (speaking as an individual) believed it would be productive of the most advantageous results. The object of his noble Friend was to make the property most useful to the Church, having at the same time due regard to the interests of the lessees. He believed every one would agree that the present management of church property was not in a satisfactory state. Nothing, indeed, could be more unsatisfactory than the manner in which some of the property belonging to the Dean and Chapter of St. Paul's was managed. He (Sir B. Hall) would take as an instance that most valuable district in St. Pancras called Agar Town, which had been the subject of reports to this House,
 2052
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, it was all very well to talk of judges and juries deciding professional and scientific questions by the aid of scientific or professional witnesses; but the other day the Judge of the Admiralty Court had a couple of admirals sitting by his side.
 SIR JOHN DUCKWORTH  said, that, although differing with the principle of the Bill, as proposing to give the distribution of this property to a central body, he would give his vote against the second reading; but, under the circumstances, he did not object, in deference to the noble Lord, to vote for its postponement until the Report of the Government Commission was laid before the House.
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, he also objected to the Bill, for he had not heard one single hon. Member who had not raised some objections to it. The details had been objected to—they had not been assented to by the Government, and they were nevertheless asked to give their assent to the second reading. Under the circumstances he thought his noble Friend
 2056
 MR. ROBERT PHILLIMORE  said, he did not think that assenting to a Bill, every feature and detail of which had been objected to, was a very wise or salutary proceeding on the part of that House. It was with the most unfeigned regret that he offered any objection to the proposition of the noble Marquess, for whose abilities and exertions upon this question he entertained the greatest respect. If he were only called upon to assent to the proposition that these estates had been grossly mismanaged, he should have no hesitation in supporting the noble Marquess; but he thought that to introduce one sweeping measure like this, without regard to local wants and exigencies, would not be conducive to the spiritual interest of the people, and would not advance the cause which the noble Marquess had at heart. The more prudent course would be to wait for the Report of the Commission now sitting before the House proceeded to enact a statute upon the subject, and then they would be in possession of more ample information, and the matter would be ripe for wise legislation. He quite agreed with the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Duncombe), that Churchmen ought to support their own Church, and Dissenters support theirs. If the House, however, went to a division he should vote against the second reading.
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  said, the Motion for reading the Bill a second time was only to enable it to go before a Committee. The works of the Great Northern Railway were fixed at Doncaster because it was the most convenient place for their iron and coal trade. They employed upwards of 1,000 hands, who lived in houses built near the works by other parties, and it was evidently necessary to provide some educational and religious provision for them. The proposal was agreed to by a majority of the property of the shareholders, and the object of the Bill was to enable them to erect a church and schools if they thought proper. He hoped the House would let the Bill go before a Committee, for there would be plenty of opportunities for any Member, or the shareholders, to oppose it at future stages. He appealed to the House if it was not right for a great mercantile concern to make such provisions for those whom they employed, who without it would he in a most destitute state?
 LORD STANLEY  said, that this was a case in which his feelings were on one side, and his reason on the other. This was not a question for a Select Committee, but a question of principle which the House was bound to decide. If, as it appeared, the majority of the shareholders were favourable to the proposed appropriation of the Company's money, there would be no difficulty in raising the funds, without taking the money of those shareholders who objected to the payment. Considering the principle involved, he had no choice in the matter, but felt bound to vote against the second reading.
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  said, that as he had sufficiently ascertained the opinion of the House, he would withdraw the Bill.
 MR. HENRY BERKELEY  put the following question to the First Lord of the Treasury:—The bribery and corruption which prevailed at the last general election having given rise to an Act against bribery and undue influence, expiring at the end of the next Session, whether the Government contemplate a renewal of that Act?
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, that having been a member of several Committees appointed to inquire into the question to which the Motion of the noble Lord referred he would beg to trouble the House with a few observations on the subject. No one who heard the speech of the noble Lord, but must give him credit for the best motives; and the treatment of the soldier was, he owned, one which deeply engrossed the attention not only of that House, but of the public generally at the present moment. As to the Motion itself he thought the House must deal with it on its own merits. The House ought not to suffer itself to be led away by mere feeling, but was bound to view the question in its nature, its operation, and its probable
 2130 2131 2132
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  said, that if the noble Lord the Member for Huddersfield, insisted upon going to a division, he should be bound to vote with him, although
 2171
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he would beg to move that Sir George Brooke Peelle11 be added to the Select Committee on the Army before Sebastopol. There was no one connected with the naval profession on the Committee. The hon. Member was well known for the attention he paid to all naval affairs, and he had the utmost confidence in his judgment and discretion.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he wished to know whether the hon. and learned Gentleman was to be understood as opposing the nomination of the hon. Baronet on the part of the Government?
 COLONEL NORTH : Then the House must understand that there was an objection on the part of the Government to have a naval Member on the Committee.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Roebuck) last night seemed to imply that there had been in the course taken by Members on the Opposition side of the House, a direct breach of agreement. That charge he most distinctly repudiated, and he could not concur in the doctrine on which the charge was founded. The hon. and learned Gentleman told them that he had formed his Committee in conjunction with the noble Lord at the head of the Government and the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli). He could not
 2174
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he must express his surprise that the Government were afraid of having a naval officer on the Committee. Be believed the inquiry would turn in a great measure upon naval tactics, and upon the negligence displayed in the transport service, and he did not think the Committee would possess the confidence of the country unless it included a naval officer among its Members.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, Sir John Hanmer was now serving on an Election Committee which had not yet terminated; but,
 2176
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  felt bound to say, that he thought it would have been conducive to the object of the House in appointing this Committee, that of instituting a full and searching inquiry, if a naval officer had been placed upon it, and that it would have been regarded as a compliment by that branch of the service with which he had the honour to be connected; but he apprehended the opportunity for that graceful and necessary compliment had now gone by, and he no longer desired to support such a Motion.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, it must be borne in mind that the Company had no power without a Bill to grant a site for the church and schools. They heard a great deal lately of the duties as well as the rights of property, and surely it was one of the first duties of property to provide for the religious and moral education of those connected with it. The Great Northern Railway were not in a position to make a voluntary effort to do this.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he felt that, never having had the honour of serving in the army, some apology was necessary for presuming to address the House upon this question, but, being about to vote against the Motion of the noble Lord, he was desirous of stating the reasons which induced hint to do so. Since his noble Friend had placed the Motion upon the
 2135 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to take into Her consideration the present system of promotion in Her Majesty's Army, so far as it relates to non-commissioned officers." 2136 2137
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : Sir, I am very sorry to stand in the way of the noble Lord (Lord Stanley), who has intimated his wish to address the House; but, seeing that he and many other hon. Members are desirous of doing so, I shall endeavour to put my observations into as short a space as possible. The hon. and gallant General who has just sat down is an example that merit is not always overlooked in our army. I rejoice to hear him giving his opinion on this subject, which he is so competent to discuss, after having returned from a field where he established for himself an undying reputation; and, at any rate, he is an instance that merit, gallantry, and military skill are better passports to higher honours than any which interest or political connections can bestow. In looking at this question we have travelled a good deal out of the Resolution, moved with so much ability by the noble Lord the Member for Huddersfield. We have discussed, not only the question whether or not non-commissioned officers should be promoted, and what the number of these promotions should be, but we have naturally, though insensibly, come to discuss a different question, namely, the rule of promotion in the army, whether it shall be by seniority simply, or by seniority combined with purchase, or whether it ought to be for merit. The accusation made against the army is, that it is essentially an aristocratic profession. Now, I think that those who say this have not defined in their own minds very clearly what they mean by aristocratic. My hon. and learned Friend (Mr. J. Ball) says the army is the closest profession in England, while the gallant Officer the Member for Bath (Captain Scobell) conies forward and greedily claims that distinction for his own profession—the navy. The hon. and gallant Member for Westminster (Sir De L. Evans) asked who ever heard of purchasing promotion in the law? I confess when I heard that I looked round to see whether my hon. Friend the Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond) was in his place,
 2149 2150 l. l. 2151 detur digniori? 2152 2153 2154 2155 2156 l. l.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : But I say that when you come practically to deal with the question, you must first of all make up your mind to put your hand in your pocket and pay to the tune of 5,000,000 l. l. 2157 Gazette. 2158 2159 2160 2161 detur digniori.
 LORD LOVAINE  said, he thought the House would not deem him unnecessarily taking up their time if be should make some few observations on one or two points touched upon in the speech of his noble Friend. It was, however, exceedingly difficult for a man who had a practical acquaintance with any subject to argue with another whose knowledge of the subject was mere vague theory. He was of opinion that not any of the reasons adduced by his noble Friend, nor even all of them combined, were sufficient to justify any change in the present system. It was alleged, in favour of a system of promotion from the ranks, that non-commissioned officers having lived and associated familiarly with the men who would be below them, would be more acquainted with their wants, their feelings, and their habits than men who had always moved in a higher class of society, and they would consequently be regarded in a more friendly spirit by them. But he would appeal to every man who had had any experience in the army whether it was not the fact that non-commissioned officers, after promotion, were generally looked upon by the privates with suspicion, and were considered upstarts who had no real pretensions of superiority over them? But it was said that if it should become the rule to promote non-commissioned officers that feeling on the part of the pri rates would no longer prevail. Supposing that to be so, still what would be the effect of introducing a number of half-educated men into the society of the other officers—men of edu-
 2117 2118 2119
 MR. FREWEN  said, he understood from the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, that he had entered into an arrangement by which six Members of the Committee were to be selected by the Government, and the other seven were to be selected with the concurrence of the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, as the leader of the Opposition. If such an arrangement had been entered into, he (Mr. Frewen) considered that good faith ought to be kept, but at the same time he did not think that the compact would be broken by adding two Members to the Committee—one on each side, especially as it appeared to him very important that there should be a naval officer upon the Committee.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he thought the Motion was calculated to excite dissatisfaction where none had previously existed. He was most anxious to do justice to the soldier, and ever wished to see merit rewarded, but he did not think the course proposed by the noble Viscount would effect the purpose for which it was designed. Speaking from experience, he should say that to make a rule of promotion from the ranks would not be agreeable to the men and non-commissioned officers. There would always be great dissatisfaction among those who were passed over. It was to the present system that we owed the high reputation of our army; and he objected to change it. He thought some limits might be put to extreme cases of promotion by purchase, such as had been referred to, but when that was done he should say to the noble Lord, "Leave well alone."
 MR. D. WADDINGTON  said, he must congratulate the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Beckett Denison) on having taken this step, for it would conduce greatly to the interests of railway companies. In the railway in which he had taken a prominent part the directors had tried the voluntary system for their hands at the works at Stratford with very little success. It was a very different case some time ago When railways were paying 10 per cent.; but now the shareholders grudge every shilling, and look at their
 2087
 MR. WARNER  said, he agreed with the noble Lord who had submitted the Motion to the House, that the only sound rule to adopt was a combination of the system of seniority and merit. There was one question which was very important, and which had not yet been touched upon, and that was, where were we to get soldiers at all if we did not hold out some further inducement? We could not have a conscription in this country, and we must therefore bring our system into such a state as that a sufficient number of men might be obtained without it. Scarcely
 2123
 MR. GLYN  said, he could state that the same question had to be decided by the directors of the London and North Western Railway after a large population had been collected at Wolverton. The directors, after due consideration, did not think it right to call upon the great body of the proprietors to erect a place of worship at Wolverton for those who were members of the Church of England. The directors, therefore, called together the members of the Church of England connected with the railway and put the case before them, and they had not the least difficulty in raising a sum of money sufficient for the erection of a church and the stipend of the minister for all time to come. If a similar course were adopted, he was persuaded there would be no difficulty in raising the money required on the Great Northern Railway, without any breach of principle or hardship upon the proprietors.
 MR. HADFIELD  seconded the Amendment. He could only add his regret that to all the misfortunes of this Company was now added the bitterness of sectarian strife. The Great Northern Company shareholders had debated this subject with extraordinary vehemence for upwards of two hours on the previous day, and ultimately the show of hands was against the Bill. The Bill proposed to expend about 35,000 l.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, the subject now under discussion had a connection with the naval profession, for, though commissions were certainly not sold in the navy, they were, he apprehended, too often given away upon motives far from creditable. The hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for War (Mr. F. Peel) had made the usual kind of routine official speech, the Government being evidently not disposed to go before the public in this matter. In the presence of the Prime Minister, however, he should say that if they did not take care, public opinion upon the subject would outrun any Ministry. He could see as plainly as he saw the sun at noonday—when it shone—that this question would never go to sleep until it was set at rest—by final settlement. Buying and selling commissions! Why, how could it be decent or becoming that the Queen's commissions should be bought and sold in the market? No other army in the world allowed such a system, and that alone he considered was conclusive against it. Suppose sergeantcies were allowed to be sold in our army—suppose the sons of shopkeepers could purchase the rank of sergeant, would our sergeants have been what they now were—the best soldiers in our army? The commanding officer of a regi-
 2124 l., 2125 2126 2127
 MR. FENWICK  said, that in opposing this stage of the Bill he would remind the House that of the 11,000,000 l. l.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he thought that great evils would arise from the adoption of the principle involved in the Bill. The House would be doing a great injury to the Church of England herself by passing this Bill, and the population intended to be benefited by it would be, he had no doubt, better provided for by not introducing this subject of dissension. Suppose an Irish railway Company came to Parliament for a similar Bill. The shareholders of that company would be, perhaps, Protestants, while the workmen would be Roman Catholics. Was the Church in such a case to be Protestant or Roman Catholic? He hoped the House would not agree to the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. WILSON  said, that in consequence of the recommendations contained in the Report of the Committee on the Post Office, an amalgamation had been made of the two classes of letter carriers—those belonging to the general post and those belonging to the district post—by which the two bodies would be made into one, but that body would be divided into four classes. These classes would be of different ranks, to which they would rise progressively. The number of men was about 2,000, and their classification had required a considerable period; but it was now in such a state of progress that he understood it would be carried into execution in the course of a very few days. With regard to the superannuation, the letter carriers had drawn it under the Act without being called upon to make any payment to the fund. As to the holidays of the letter carriers, it had been arranged that each should have a fortnight's holiday in each year without any deduction, but of course the time of leave must be regulated according to the necessities of the Post Office from time to time.
 MR. J. BALL  said, he could not understand why the army should be the profession of all others in which it was most
 2133 l. 2134
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the argument of the hon. Member Who had just sat down was, he considered, fatal to the Bill. Was it fair for a portion of the directors to come and ask Parliament to take away the money of the shareholders for a purpose for which they were unwilling to give it freely themselves? He considered the principle to be what had hitherto never been heard of with respect to any commercial establishment whatever; and what he had seen on other lines would be done voluntarily by the shareholders, be they Church of England or Dissenters.
 MR. ROEBUCK  moved, that the Committee appointed to inquire into the state of the army before Sebastopol have leave to report.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he did oppose the Motion on the part of the Government.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he had no objection whatever to the Gentleman proposed, but, as he had stated last night, he hail entered into an arrangement with other parties with reference to the appointment of the Committee, and as it was the part of an honourable man to keep by any arrangement which he might make, he would adhere to the Committee, as already appointed. He, therefore, opposed the Motion.
 MR. LOCKE  said, that the principle now sought to be introduced was an entirely new one. And the House had to consider whether it would permit the money of the shareholders to be diverted from the purposes for which it had been originally subscribed. He might refer the House to the case of Crewe, which was supplied with eight places of worship without a single compulsory advance from the shareholders of the North Western Company. The directors in that case, when anxious to build a church, called only the members of the Church of England together, and from
 2086
 MR. LAING  said, that as Chairman of the London and Brighton Railway, he wished to state that the directors of that railway had always come to the conclusion that it would not be right for them, as trustees for the shareholders, to tax them for an object of this kind.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he begged to inquire of the hon. Secretary of the Treasury what, if any, new arrangements have been submitted for the approval of
 2090
 MR. OTWAY  said, he wished to ask the hon. Under Secretary for War whether there was any agreement between Her Majesty's Government and the Porte, by which tier Majesty's Government undertook to provide food for the Turkish soldiers and forage for their cavalry in the Crimea; and if so, if any and what steps had been taken to ensure the delivery of hay sufficient for the large body of Turkish cavalry stationed in or about to be sent to the Crimea?
 MR. OTWAY  said, he thought that the noble Lord who had just sat down had done himself no great credit in throwing out a sneer in the way he had done at the manners of the non-commissioned officers. Those men, through long experience and hard service, might be excellent officers, although not quite so refined as the gentlemen who obtained their position by purchase. He thought, also, the noble Lord had come to a very erroneous conclusion as to the effect of the military system in India. It was perfectly true that there did exist a  quasi 2120 l., chef de bataillon, esprit de corps 2121 2122
 SIR DE LACY EVANS : Sir, I have not come down to the House this evening for the purpose of trespassing at any great length upon it, hut as this is a subject on which I have on former occasions expressed my humble opinion, although unsuccessfully, I think it my duty to offer a few words in support of the noble Lord's (Viscount Goderich's) Motion. The noble Lord who last addressed you has expressed his great apprehension lest the House should be driven into the adoption of some imprudent resolution in consequence of the cry which has arisen throughout the country upon this subject. But I, at all events, and I believe there are many others in the same situation, am not in the slightest degree influenced by the cry, if there be such a cry—I am merely expressing the same opinions that I have always entertained on this subject. There have been various
 2138 Cries of 2139 l. l. 2140 l. 2141 2142 2143 l. l., l., l., 2144 l. 2145 2146 2147 2148
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL : What I stated was, that the 100,000 l.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, there was one important part of the noble Lord's case, which he had admitted to be essentially weak because he had not attempted to represent the inconvenience of the system which he wished to change. The system of promotion by purchase might be faulty in principle, and defective in theory, but it could not be said in truth that it had, in its actual working, operated injuriously to the interests of the country or to the dishonour or the discredit of the English army. He (Mr. Peel) apprehended, on the contrary, that if he had all the armies of the world brought before him, and it were a question to which army he should refer to find officers distinguished for their high sense of personal honour, their courage and unshrinking bravery, and possessing also, in a superior degree, the feelings and habits of gentlemen, the army to which he should refer would be the English army and its officers. Now the question to be considered was, whether those were qualifications indispensable in English officers. He did not underrate the importance of having officers who should, like men who had risen from the ranks, understand with intimate familiarity the duties, wants, and feelings of the private soldiers; but when he considered what our army was, and what this country was—and when he recollected what an extensive tour of colonial service our army had to perform—and when he knew, as he did from his connection with the Colonial Office, what important functions the officers of our army in the colonial service were called on to perform, how delicate and difficult were the duties which devolved upon them, occasionally, and even frequently, required to
 2108 2109 primâ facie 2110 2111 2112 l. l.; 2113 2114 l.; l. 2115 Geo. l., 2116
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, by the agreement with the Porte it was intended that there should be employed a Turkish extra force, a portion of which was to consist of cavalry, and the horses of that country would no doubt receive their forage from the British Government; but in the course of the last few months such large contracts had been entered into that he did not apprehend it would be necessary to make any special provision for the supply of the Turkish cavalry.
 SIR GEORGE GREY,  in reply, said, that his noble Friend (Lord Palmerston) had stated some time ago that the Government did not propose to submit any Bill to Parliament this Session upon the subject of the police. He (Sir G. Grey) fully admitted the importance of that subject, and was anxious that an improved system of police in counties and boroughs should be established. His attention should be directed to the matter, and he hoped at some future time to be able to propose a measure in reference to it. There was, however, a way, under a recent Act of Parliament, by which counties could themselves establish an improved system of police, and the necessity for a compulsory measure arose only from the indisposition in some places to adopt it. With regard to reformatory schools, an Act passed last Session by which power was given to commit juvenile offenders to certain reformatory institutions, on their being certified by the Secretary of State as fit places for the purpose. That power had been exercised in several counties, eight such institutions had already been certified, and proposals had been made and were under consideration for establishing reformatory schools in several other counties. The hon. Member for Stafford had given notice of a Bill to amend the Act of last Session, to which he (Sir G. Grey) alluded, and from other quarters various sugges-
 2089
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought it might be desirable to take that course, but suggested that it would be better to repeat the question when his noble Friend the Chief Secretary for the Colonies was present.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it was intended to issue a proclamation on the subject, but that the Government considered it would be premature to do so until the accounts from all the Colonies were received. Every day fresh contributions were coming in from the Colonies; yesterday he had received a despatch from Newfoundland, transmitting 2,000 l., 2091 l.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was only anxious to know whether Government contemplated any more formal acknowledgment than had been made in the despatches, in reply to those containing the contributions.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he begged to ask whether there would be any objection to lay upon the table of the House copies of any despatches which had been sent in acknowledgment of the loyal addresses, votes of money to the Patriotic Fund, and other modes in which the Colonies and dependencies of the British Crown had assured Her Majesty of their sympathy and zealous co-operation in the war in which this country was now engaged?
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, he had always had considerable apprehensions that one of the consequences of the disastrous, ill-conceived, and worse executed expedition to the Crimea, would be to throw an unjust discredit upon our military system, and that popular indignation would be directed against it as a whole. He was aware that a great many  ad captandum 2128 2129
 MR. PALK  said, he begged to ask whether it was the intention of the Government to introduce any measure for the establishing a general police, and also any measure for the reformation of juvenile offenders; whether it was the intention of the Government to grant any funds for the establishment of reformatory schools; and whether any plan would be proposed for the profitable employment of convict labour?
 SIR ERSKINE PERRY  said, the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has put forward some ingenious arguments in behalf of purchase which have been much cheered on the benches opposite him, and he has stated many difficulties which attend promotion from the ranks. But as his own mind is evidently not convinced by his own arguments, and as the difficulties suggested by him do not deter him from recommending such promotion, he may be set clown as friendly to my noble Friend's Resolution, and any serious refutation of his reasoning is uncalled for. The question, as it has been argued to-night, has scarcely been placed high enough; for it is but a portion of a still greater question which is coming before the House in many different shapes, and from many independent quarters, all having reference to one object, the opening up of every career in life, civil or military, to merit, as distinguished from mere political or aristocratic claims. If a deeper inquiry be made as to the cause of these symptoms, there could be no difficulty in attributing it to the great democratic movement which is displayed in the civilised parts of Europe during the present century. He would appeal to all thoughtful men, and especially to contemporaries and friends of his own, whom he saw on the opposite benches, such as the right hon. Members for Midhurst and Dublin University (Messrs. Walpole and Napier), men who have read in the same books, studied in the same schools, and witnessed the same facts as himself, whether it was not quite clear that the change indicated in the present Resolution must take place in England sooner or later. The old feudal character of armies, with the wide gulf between officers and the ranks, had given way on the Continent, and whether one approves of it or not, it is inevitable that it must give way here also. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle (Sir J. Graham), had taken
 2162 2163 2164
 VISCOUNT GODERICH  said, that in bringing forward the Motion of which he had given notice, although he felt that he needed the kind indulgence of the House to a greater extent even than usual, and although he wished that the task of submitting to the notice of the House a question of such great importance had been undertaken by some Member of greater weight and influence than himself, he nevertheless imagined that no apology would be considered necessary for begging hon. Members to take into their consideration a question of, at the present moment, such overwhelming interest as the system of promotion which existed in our army. At a time like this, when we were engaged in a great and severe contest, and when, if we had not actually met with great disasters, our
 2092 2093 2094 2095 2096 2097 Gazette 2098 le brave des braves? 2099 2100 2101 2102 [Laughter.] 2103 [Ironical cheers] 2104 2105 2106 "Reges ex nobilitate, duces ex virtute sumunt. 2107
 VISCOUNT GODERICH,  in reply, observed that he had nothing to add to what had fallen from his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Westminster (Sir De Lacy Evans); because any words of his would only weaken the effect which that speech was calculated to produce. The two speeches which had proceeded from the Treasury benches did not lead him to the conclusion that he should be fulfilling the task which he had undertaken if he were to withdraw his Motion. The first part of the speech of the noble Lord, who had just spoken answered the last part; and, under these circumstances, he must press the Motion to a division.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, it is impossible to deny that the subject which my noble Friend (Viscount Goderich) has brought this evening under the consideration of the House is one of great importance, and also of great interest. It is important because it regards one of the great institutions of the country—an institution. upon which depends the defence of the dignity and the honour of the country. It is also of interest because it concerns, I may say, all classes of the community. I should, however, in the first place, beg leave to say that I differ with many of those who have spoken to-night in an opinion and as to a fact. In opinion I differ with the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just sat down, and who has talked of the great democratic movement which has been making progress during the last twenty or forty years. I hear a great
 2165 2166 2167 2168 2169 2170
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, it appeared to him that the Act alluded to by the hon. Member ought to have a fuller trial than it had yet received; and, in all probability, the Government would propose its continuance for a longer period.
 MR. T. BUNCOMBE  asked the Under Secretary for War whether there was any objection to lay upon the table copies of any letters or despatches that had passed between Lord Raglan and the Minister for War relative to the wants of the army in the Crimea?
 MR. PEEL  objected to the production of portions of correspondence between Lord Raglan and the Minister at War relative to the wants of the army in the East. It ought to be left to the Government to determine at what period the correspondence should be produced; and be-
 9
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary for War whether those sergeants of regiments of militia who are now pensioners from the army, and who have volunteered for foreign service, will be allowed to count that service towards increase of pension?
 COLONEL NORTH  said, they had no chance of living to that time, for they were old men at the present time.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished to ask whether the Government had made any inquiry into the salubrity of Smyrna, which he believed to be the most unhealthy part of the Levant?
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that some hon. Gentlemen appeared to be seeking to make political capital out of this question. He thought it was not unreasonable that Irish Members should defer their questions till the Secretary for Ireland was in his place, but it was singular to find that the Government had placed on the orders of the day an Irish Bill—the Lunatic Asylums (Ireland) Advances Bill—for second reading. That Bill should certainly stand over till the Secretary for Ireland was in the House; and, moreover, Members ought to be told when the business relating to Ireland would be taken.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he wished to state, in a very few words, why he dissented from the present application to the House. The hon. and learned Gentleman, the Chairman of the Committee, had not, he thought, quite rightly represented the feelings of the Committee upstairs—at least, he had not quite rightly represented his (Lord Seymour's) feelings. Hon. Members might imagine, when they saw the Committee coming back immediately to the House and asking for the power of secrecy, that upon going into the Committee they had suddenly discovered some State secret of so dangerous a character, so perilous in its nature, and so alarming, that they were overwhelmed with horror at what they had discovered, and had run back therefore to the House to beg that they might be allowed to bury it in eternal silence. But, to tell the House the truth, they had nothing to conceal, for as yet they had discovered nothing. They had not seen a single witness or heard a single statement on the subject; and the House, therefore, was in exactly the same condition in which it was when the Committee was moved for. If it were now necessary to have the Committee secret, it was then equally necessary; but they were told at that time that it was the public who wanted this full inquiry, and that the whole subject was to be brought before the public. But now it seemed the inquiry was to be secret. There might, as the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield had stated, be three sorts of Committees—one open to the public as well as to Members—and he should have been glad to have adopted that course in the present case, for he thought that it was upon most occasions the preferable course. In this instance, however, it might be impossible to do that, because in the first place the room would be so overcrowded with the curious and the interested that the Committee would be impeded in their inquiry. Obviously, also, there would be reports spread about by persons over whom they had no control, which would be both unfair to individuals and inconvenient to the public service. Another course was to make it a completely Secret Committee. If that were done, questions would be asked and answers given under that plea, which would
 22 23 Quis custodiet ipsos custodes? 24
 MR. ELLICE  said, that, although the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire had endeavoured to lead the House to view with suspicion the fact that those Members of the Committee who desired that it should be an open Committee were exactly those who had originally voted against the appointment, yet he could assure the House, both for himself and his noble Friend near him (Lord Seymour), that they still adhered to that vote, and would repeat it were the occasion to occur again. That, however, was a very different thing from asserting that the public had no right to demand a full and searching inquiry into the maladministration of the army in the Crimea; on the contrary, he considered it absolutely necessary that some such inquiry should take place, when the operations in that country were over, and when it could be conducted without danger to the public service. He had always protested against the doctrine that this Minister or that Minister was to blame. So far as the Ministers were concerned, all were equally to blame; or, if one more than another, it was those who, doubting of the policy and the measures which were being pursued, delayed to insist upon the adoption of a different course. He must say that if there were any two Members in that House who had almost expected the evils which had resulted, although perhaps not to so great an extent—who had less cause to be surprised at the maladministration and mismanagement of the army departments—it was himself and his noble Friend near him, who had been engaged in so many inquiries into military subjects, and who too clearly fore-
 52 53 54
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he was anxious to state the grounds upon which it was his intention to vote against the Motion. On a former occasion, he had stated that he fully appreciated all the dangers which might be incurred in consequence of the indiscreet prosecution of this inquiry, but such an inquiry having been resolved upon he thought it would be utterly impossible to prevent the secrets of the Committee from transpiring in some form or other, and the only way to prevent those secrets being communicated through improper channels, and published to the world in a garbled manner, with equally injudicious observations and results, would be to have an open inquiry. In all probability, if the hon. Members composing the Committee acted under the knowledge that their proceedings would from day to day be submitted for the consideration of the country, they would be more discreet in their questions than if the inquiry were secret. Another reason why the proceedings of this Committee ought to be public was the deficiency of the naval element in its constitution. He was still of opinion that, considering much of the inquiry would be upon nautical affairs, the Committee—and he said it with great deference to the ability and capacity of its Members—would be incompetent to deal with many of the subjects which would be brought before it. On these grounds, in his judgment, it was of the utmost importance that the investigation should be public.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he thought the Horse Guards were perfectly right in adopting that course. But the fact was, many officers had been placed upon the half-pay list in consequence of the difficulty of finding regiments for them. It followed, therefore, that the authorities at the Horse Guards had acted most wisely and considerately, under the circumstances.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that not having had an opportunity of addressing the House last night on the discussion relative to the sale of commissions, he would wish now to observe, that if officers were to be deprived of the power of selling their commissions, the country would be saddled
 65 l. l.,
 CAPTAIN STUART KNOX  said, that the hon. Member for Lambeth had shown his ignorance of the service by the observations he had made. If the hon. Member admitted the justice of an officer being allowed to sell his commission, surely he must also allow persons to buy commissions.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished to ask the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the War Department, if commis-
 66
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he must complain of a statement made on a previous occasion by the hon. Member for Lambeth. That hon. Gentleman had referred to a case of punishment in the 26th Regiment, and he had averred that the younger officers of that regiment, being on oath, had, in order not to displease their seniors, agreed to the sentence, which was afterwards carried into effect. Now, he would just state what were the facts of the case. The man was not tried by regimental court martial at all, but by district court martial, so that the officers of the 26th Regiment had nothing to do with the sentence. The crime for which the severest punishments were inflicted in the army was theft from a comrade, and this man had been not only guilty of that crime, but also of desertion. There was no extra severity used towards the man. When he was in the Prussian army, the captain of a company there was empowered, without court martial, but solely by his own free will, to inflict fifty lashes upon a soldier. There were other punishments practised in that army which would not be tolerated in this country. What he found fault with was this—the hon. Member for Lambeth was in the habit of inflicting the cruellest attacks upon the honour and character of officers, without previously making inquiries as to the truth of his impressions.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he hoped it was not to be avowed as a principle in our army that the commissions arising from an increase of the army were to be sold. On the part of the army, he thought the practice a most objectionable one, and if it were repeated he should certainly bring the question before the House.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he quite agreed with the observations of the hon. Member for Dungarvan (Mr. Maguire), being unable to see the justice of providing for the widows and orphans of one class in the army and not for those of another. It was both mean and impolitic in a great nation like this, to send round a begging box, calling on the public to do that which he maintained the State was bound to do. They ought to have a statement made by some Member of the Government as to what was intended to be done with the sum collected from the public bounty. The disposition of the Patriotic Fund at the end of the last war had been very unsatisfactory, a surplus of something like 80,000 l.
 MR. SHAFTO ADAIR  said, that as a member of the Executive Committee of the Patriotic Fund, he fully concurred in the testimony paid by the hon. and gallant Member for Oxfordshire to the success which had attended Major Powys's exertions. With regard to what had been done by the Royal Commission, he could state that the Committee had, after much consideration, prepared a scale of relief for the warrant officers and sailors of the navy, and for the privates and non-commissioned officers of the army and the Marines, which would come into operation from the previous day—March 1. The Committee had been most anxious to meet the wishes of the donors, and with this
 69
 COLONEL NORTH  said, with regard to expending the Patriotic Fund in the way stated by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate), he might mention that Mr. Cunard gave 500 l.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that the present was a time at which, instead of reducing the establishment at Kilmainham, increased accommodation should be provided. It was perfectly clear that there would be, during the war, a great number of wounded soldiers for whom such accommodation would be found necessary.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that while the Protestant clergyman at Kilmainham had no other source of income than that which he derived from the discharge of the duties connected with his office there, the Roman Catholic chaplain had, besides his salary, certain parochial dues.
 LORD ALFRED PAGET  said, he was desirous of knowing whether there was any intention that the widows and children of officers who died in the service should receive either the value of the commissions of those officers or any compensation in lieu of such value? It was said that there was not a colonel at Inkerman or Balaklava who had not from 8,000 l. l. 70
 LORD LOVAINE  said, he must congratulate the army upon the accession of so powerful and able a supporter of the system of purchase and sale as the hon. Member for Lambeth. It was delightful to see, notwithstanding what had occurred on previous occasions, with what vigour the hon. Gentleman now supported the purchase and sale of commissions, and it would be very hard if Gentlemen who sat upon the same side of the House with him should oppose his views.
 MR. LAYARD : I hope, Sir, I may be allowed to trespass for a few moments upon the time of the House after what has fallen from the hon. Gentleman, and I appeal to the House to say whether it was good taste on the part of the hon. Gentleman to introduce a subject perfectly irrelevant to the question under discussion, more especially after I had done all in the matter to which he referred that, as an honourable man and a gentleman, I could do? The circumstances to which he alluded have been so misrepresented—for I have allowed myself to be made the victim of misrepresentation rather than bring the case before the public—that I entreat the House to allow me to tell them exactly how matters stand, at least so far as I am personally concerned. First of all there was no letter whatever from me in the public press, dated" from the main-top of the  Agamemnon." Agamemnon, 41 42
 MR. LAYARD  said that, when the question of the appointment of a Committee was brought before the House, he had felt it his duty to express his opinion that it would give rise to great inconvenience, and would shackle the Executive. The appointment of the Committee, as was well known, was carried by a large majority, and the Government themselves stated that they would accept that vote as a vote of confidence or no confidence. The House was, therefore, obliged to deal with the question as it was placed by the Government, putting aside its merits. Upon that vote the Government went out of office. If the question had been brought forward since the present Government had been in office, and if they had placed it on the ground of a vote of confidence, he would have felt little difficulty in determining in what way he should give his vote, for he could not say that either the House or the country felt much confidence in the existing Administration. He had entertained objections to the appointment of the Committee, because he did not think that the Executive Government could be carried on by men whose conduct was under criticism in a Committee room upstairs; but that objection had been re-
 36 37 38
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, if there is any measure upon which the House of Com-
 47 48 49
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he trusted that, if an officer did that which caused him to lose his commission, he deserved to lose his position in society also. He was very happy when he saw an instance of a man expelled from a regiment when he had done that which deserved such expulsion. Such a course exalted them in the eyes of those whom they commanded.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he could not help feeling, as he was sure every man felt, that a very great hardship was inflicted upon the widows and children of officers who sacrificed their lives in the service of their country. If an officer disgraced himself, then his commission and the value of it ought to be forfeited; but when he fell in battle, then provision should be made by the country for his widow and children. He, for one, would deprecate most sincerely the view taken that the widows and children of officers were entitled to participate in the Patriotic Fund, as that fund was not subscribed for them, but for widows and children of the non-commissioned officers and privates of the army. The country would expect that the fund should be strictly limited to the purposes for which it was collected. But he felt that it was a case of desperate hardship upon the widows and children of officers killed in battle, that at the moment when they were deprived of husbands and fathers they should be also deprived of the means of living. He thought that Parliament was bound to consider this hardship, and provide a remedy.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he strongly opposed the Motion. He could not see, and never had been able to see, what good reform had done the country. Talk of genius being excluded from the House by the property qualification—give him property—give him men who, having property of their own to take care of, would take care of other people's as well. He only wished the property qualification were ten times greater, and then the House would be more respectable than it was. At present, we are a company without a shirt among us. For the House of Commons as a body he entertained a high respect,
 77
 MR. ROCHE  said, that having been one of those who had the courage to vote against the appointment of this Committee, he had listened with great pleasure to the debate, because every hon. Member who had spoken had used arguments which justified those who had voted against it. It appeared to him that the House was in a greater difficulty than ever. The Government were constitutionally responsible for such an inquiry, as their acts might be impugned; but a Secret Committee, with power to publish only garbled or imperfect reports, could afford to laugh at the public. The hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) had said that the whole subject to be considered was appalling. He would ask if anything which had occurred in the debate had tended to give fresh courage to the Members of the Committee who would have to approach that subject? He contended, then, that the investigation ought to be undertaken by the Government. The inquiry ought to be full and untrammelled, and how that end could be attained by an irresponsible Committee he was at a loss to conceive.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he did not think there was much force in the argument of the noble Lord, that, because the practice which obtained in Scotland was an exception to the rule that was established in England and Ireland, therefore it ought not to be introduced into those countries. The question was, whether the non-qualification principle worked well in Scotland. He contended that it did; and if so, there was no reason why it should
 78
 MR. FRENCH : Sir, I trust the noble Lord at the head of the Government will excuse me for putting a question without notice. There is a rumour that Her Majesty's Government have received intelligence of the death of His Majesty the Emperor of Russia. I wish to ask if
 11
 MR. FRENCH  said, he thought the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down had faithfully followed the advice of the noble Lord, who had advised the Irish Members to fight out their quarrels among themselves. The hon. and learned Gentleman had made, for some unknown reason, a violent attack upon the right hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin, and had further attacked, or rather threatened, the noble Lord himself. He (Mr. French) did not see why the noble Lord should express surprise at the question which had been put to him, for Irish Members had always complained of the periods selected for the transaction of Irish business. Not only were Irish Bills brought forward at inconvenient times, but they were generally unintelligible. That arose from the fact that there was no person conversant with Irish law spe-
 18
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, that the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the War Department had stated that evening, in answer to a question which he had put to him, that the rate of pay, in the case of the clergymen of the Church of England and the Roman Catholic chaplains in the Crimea, was somewhat in proportion to the scale of living to which the clergymen of the two Churches were accustomed. Now, he wished to ask the hon. Gentleman what his idea was of the scale of living of the Roman Catholic chaplain to Kilmainham Hospital, for whom last year a salary of 50 l.
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, that to give the Catholic chaplain at Kilmainham only one-fifth of the salary which was received by the Protestant clergyman, was not placing them in the same favourable position as that in which they stood in the Crimea, where their salary was one-half.
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, he begged to ask the Under Secretary for War whether the salaries of the chaplains attending the army in the East were fixed during the past year by a War Office regulation at 10 s. s. d. s.
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he had supported the Motion of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Roebuck) because he was not satisfied with the conduct of the Government in respect to the war; but at the same time he felt it necessary and just that a Committee of inquiry should be appointed. Fully agreeing with those who said that the inquiry should be full and searching, he was at a loss to understand how it possibly could be satisfactory, as far as the public were concerned, unless it was made a public inquiry. He was certain the inquiry could never be fair or just to those concerned—whether high or low, that was immaterial—unless they knew the charges
 45
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he should support the measure. He thought there was no justice in having a qualification for Ireland and none for Scotland. He objected to a property qualification altogether, and believed that by reason of it many good men were excluded from that House.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he must remind the Committee that he had made a calculation of the loss sustained by the wives and families of officers who had died since May last, and he found that no less than 365,000 l. 71
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he trusted that no such courtesy as the hon. Gentleman had asked for would he granted to him. This was a very serious question, and he thought that it ought not to be considered in the absence of the majority of the leading Members of the Government. If it were advisable to introduce such a Bill, it ought to be proposed by the Government, and not by an individual Member.
 MR. DRUMMOND : Before addressing myself, Sir, to the question before the
 50 51
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, he must beg to state, in explanation, that he did not mean to attack the hon. Member for Aylesbury; and if he had spoken warmly, it was out of regard to the gallant Admiral, his friend. He had only referred to the matter as illustrating the danger of such an inquiry as that before the Select Committee being conducted with privacy.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down appeared to
 39 40
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he wished to know if the rumour that it was the intention of the Government to reduce the establishment at Kilmainham was correct? The warrant of 1845 ordered that there should be four resident captains, and 700 in-door pensioners, in that institution. The noble Lord the present Secretary of War had, however, undertaken, upon his own responsibility, to make a reduction in that number some years ago. That order of the noble Lord had, however, been rescinded by a Resolution of that House upon a Motion which he about two years since had had the honour to propose. But the right hon. Gentleman the late Secretary at War had not acted in accordance with that Resolution, and the number of inmates in the hopital at Kilmainham had continued at the number to which it had been reduced by the order of Lord Panmure. He thought the right hon. Gentleman might be considered to have committed petty larceny in that respect, the original order having been little short of downright robbery. He wished, therefore, to learn what were the intentions of the Government upon the subject.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that the duties of the Protestant clergyman at Kilmainham were of a much more onerous description than those of the Roman Catholic chaplain.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he could mention the case of an officer not actually killed in action, but who died two or three days after receiving a wound in the trenches. Would not his widow and orphans have a fair claim to rank with those whose husbands and parents had died in action?
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he could not concur in the argument of the hon. and learned Member, that, because the non-qualification principle worked well in Scotland, therefore it ought to be adopted in England and Ireland. The civil law no doubt also worked well in Scotland, but was that a reason why it should be introduced into this country?
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he had listened
 15
 MR. WILSON  having moved that the House at its rising should adjourn until Monday next,
 MR. J. BALL  said, it was clear that the House were about to give a decided negative to the proposition of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield; but he was of opinion that no amount of discretion could prevent danger to the interests of the country arising from the investigations of the Committee, for they would not be
 55
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he had not the slightest objection to make to this Vote, but he could not understand what reason there was why the widow and orphans of a soldier in the ranks should not be as much the object of consideration to the State, to which he had given his services and for which he had shed his blood, as the widow and orphans of an officer. If they wished to promote enlistment into the army, they were bound to hold out every
 68
 MR. MAGUIRE said, he regretted to find that the noble Lord at the head of the Government had not fairly treated this matter. The noble Lord was afraid that if that House granted provision for the wife and child of the soldier, it would be cut down by the economists in that House. Now, he (Mr. Maguire) denied that any economist would cut down that which should be fairly given. The Under Secretary of War had remarked that the State did make a provision. Now, as far as he
 74
 MR. MAGUIRE  asked the Under Secretary at War whether any steps, and, if any, what steps, had been taken by the War Department to improve the armament of the cavalry, artillery, or other troops, by providing them with a breech-loading arm?
 MR. MURROUGH  said, he would now beg to ask for leave to introduce a Bill to abolish the Property Qualification of Members of Parliament. He hoped that at that late hour (ten minutes past twelve o'clock) the House would extend to him the courtesy of permitting his Bill to be introduced without his making any statement in its support on that occasion.
 MR. MURROUGH , in reply, said that the obstructive power of the House was very great in regard to such measures as this; but his only chance for this Bill was to press it to a division now. The hon. Member for Antrim (Mr. Macartney) had said that if they wanted a comprehensive system of reform they must look to the Government of which the noble Lord was the head; but he would ask any one who had heard that night the speech of that noble Lord, the  soi-disant
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that he rose to perform what was to him a disagreeable and a painful duty—namely, to propose to the House to make the Select Committee appointed to inquire into the condition of the army before Sebastopol a Secret Committee. In submitting this Motion to the House, he wished to make a few observations, not because he had any doubt as to the wisdom of the course which he was now recommending, but because it was one which might be open to misapprehension and misconception out of doors. As there might be some misapprehension and misconception as to what was intended, he would explain what was really meant by making the Committee a Secret Committee. According to a celebrated formulary, these were the courses which they could adopt:—They might either make it an open Committee—admitting the public as well as Members of the House—or they might exclude the public but not Members;
 19 20 21
 MR. ROEBUCK : Sir, as I think the proposal I made was one of an extraordinary nature, and the powers which I intended to ask the House to permit me to employ was equally extraordinary, and one which ought not to be placed lightly in any man's hands, I fancy the feeling which I find prevails throughout the House precludes me from going to a division. And as this measure is, as I have said, one of an extraordinary nature, it ought to be justified by the almost unanimous opinion of the House; and as I find the opinion is almost unanimously the other way, I suppose I must yield and proceed with the inquiry in the manner the House desires. I trust, however, that I may be permitted to say a few words in explanation of myself and my colleagues. The Gentlemen composing the Committee, I think, are all seriously bent on a thorough and searching investigation. Now, the hon. Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond) says, he looks with great suspicion on the words "thorough and searching investigation;" but I think the words explain themselves. They do not mean a wide field of examination, but a thorough and searching investigation, confined to the period and to the circumstances to which the inquiry refers. Now, Sir, as I found that a portion of my colleagues wished a thorough investigation, and as they believed that could only be obtained through the means of a Secret Committee, I (coinciding in that opinion) made the Motion which I have submitted to the House; and it is a rather suspicious circumstance, that a great majority of those persons who spoke against secrecy, are the very persons who voted against the appointment of any Committee at all. The arguments which they have used tonight are arguments against the appointment of a Committee, and those who opposed the Committee seem to consider the withdrawal of the present Motion a triumph in their favour. There is a homely phrase, that what is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander, and the moral of that
 62 "I have stated, on a former occasion, that I do not think a revelation to the House of all the details connected with the exercise of this power would be conducive to the public good; and I retain that opinion. I do think that there must be an inquiry, not before a Select Committee, but before a Secret Committee, the Members to be nominated by the House."—[3  Hansard, 63
 COLONEL SMYTH  said, he would beg to inquire of the hon. Under Secretary of State for War, whether any arrangement has been made to send either to Scutari or to the camp in the Crimea those surgeons of militia regiments who have volunteered their services in accordance with a circular addressed to them from the War Office; or, whether any arrangements have been made to send out the civil practitioners who have offered their services?
 MR. VANCE  said, he would beg to ask, what was the meaning of the sum of 50 l.
 MR. VANCE  said, he wished to know how it was that, while there was accommodation for 300 persons in Kilmainham Hospital, provision was made for only 144 persons?
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, he wished to express to the House the feeling he entertained upon this subject. Several Members of that House had, like himself, when the hon. and learned Gentleman brought forward his Motion, opposed that Motion, not more upon grounds founded upon their opinions with regard to it than because they foresaw the difficulties which would inevitably arise if the House of Commons acceded to the appointment of the Committee. To many hon. Members it was obvious that such a Committee could not proceed one step without encountering great difficulties, and the result had proved that, on the very first day after the House had granted that Committee, it had become involved in difficulty. The noble Lord (Lord Seymour) had pointed out some of those difficulties, but he had not stated the case as he (Mr. W. Patten) considered that it ought to be submitted to the House, and he had made a mistake as to what would be the nature of the inquiry. He (Mr. W. Patten) had had the honour of serving on a Secret Committee some years back, and he thought that it was very necessary that every Member should know how the proceedings of a Secret Committee were conducted. He quite agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) that if the House granted a Secret Committee it ought to place the highest confidence in the judgment and discretion of the members of that Committee; no other course could be pursued: but in the present instance there was at once this dilemma, from which it was impossible to escape, that motives of public policy might require one course of conduct to be adopted, while absolute justice to individuals might require a completely contrary course. He would take as an example one particular case—that of the Duke of Newcastle—and he would take that case because the vote of that House had peculiar reference to that noble Duke. Whatever might be the feeling in that House with regard to the vote at which it had arrived on the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, the feeling out of doors undoubtedly was that that vote was a direct censure upon the Duke of Newcastle. ["No, no!"] Why, several hon. Members, in the course of that debate, had absolutely avowed that they looked upon the Motion as a vote of cen-
 25 26
 MR. WILSON PATTEN : No, no! Those words certainly did escape my lips, but I corrected myself, and said that the vote of inquiry was viewed by many Members as a direct censure upon the Government, of which the Duke of Newcastle was the most prominent Member as far as the conduct of the war was concerned.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to inquire in whose hands the proceeds of the sale of these commissions were to be placed, and to the credit of what account they were to be brought?
 MR. HENLEY  said, his question had not been answered. He wished to know in what office this money was—whether in that of the Secretary for War, or of the Commander in Chief?
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought that the Bill was part of the larger question of reform, and had better be deferred until the great measure which the Government had promised to introduce after the conclusion of the war. The question had so often fallen to the ground when left to stand by itself, that it would be a charity to refuse leave to introduce the hon. Member's Bill.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he thought the tribunal which the House had appointed was the best judge of the mode in which the inquiry should be conducted; and as the Committee, with a knowledge of facts which hon. Members generally did not possess, and after deliberation, had, as conscientious men, assured the House that it was necessary for the execution of their duty that the investigation should be conducted in secret, he felt bound to acquiesce in their decision, and he was the more inclined to do so when he saw some who had opposed all inquiry, and who were perhaps anxious now to render inquiry abortive, object to the proposition that the investigation should be secret. Though publicity, he admitted, should be the general rule, there might be exceptional cases like the present, where secrecy was requisite.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he would take that opportunity to call the attention of the House to the position in which Irish busi-
 12
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said, having served under the late gallant Colonel Moore, he wished to state that, although his widow would only be entitled to a pension of 90 l. l., l.
 MR. P. O'BRIEN  said, he believed this was not an improper occasion on which to complain of a practice that had of late been most invidiously exercised—namely, the bringing in gentlemen from off the half-pay list to fill up the regimental vacancies, to the prejudice of those who had served for considerable periods in the army. He himself knew of cases where the claims of officers who had fought gallantly on the fields of the Alma and Inkerman had been thus overlooked in favour of those who were long distant from those scenes. He believed arrangements of that kind were most ill-considered.
 COLONEL GILPIN  said, he wished to inquire of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Peel) whether the system of selling commissions on the part of the Government, which, so far as he knew, was an entirely novel system, was to be continued?
 MR. BELLEW  said, that corporal punishment had been virtually abolished in the army, except for certain crimes which were looked upon as disgraceful, and he could not believe that the retention of this punishment, to the limited extent in which it was at present made use of, was at all likely to be injurious to the service or to society.
 MR. BELLEW  said, he was willing to
 72
 MR. BELLEW  said, that the voluntary contributions of parishioners depended very much on the amount of attention from the
 75
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that on the occasion of the debates respecting the appointment of the Committee, from the pertinacity with which the Members and supporters of the Government had persisted in stating that they considered the Motion nothing but a vote of censure, he smelt a rat. It was his opinion, that if they could
 56 57 58
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE : Do I understand that the hon. Gentleman objects to produce the correspondence?
 MR. PHINN  said, he wished to inquire whether the Government had issued any general warrant regulating the promotion of general officers; and, if so, whether it contained a provision that any officer who had served six years as equerry to the Sovereign should be entitled to the rank of a general officer?
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, he would, in a few words, explain the course which he had thought it right to pursue, and he must be allowed to say that he thought the noble Lord had acted very wisely in giving no answer to the hostile question of
 16 17
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he would take that occasion to ask whether the clothing of the army was still left to the colonels of regiments? On looking into the Estimates for 1853, he found that the clothing of the marines cost the country 17½ per cent less than the rest of the army, although the clothing of the marines was of a superior quality.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to call the attention of the Committee to the list of officers receiving half-pay. He found there were in it 108 cornets and ensigns, 788 lieutenants, 754 captains, and 178 majors. No officer ought to be allowed to go on half-pay with a low rank; if he wished to retire from the service, he should be compelled to sell his commission; that would relieve the country from a charge of from 200,000 l. l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he was always opposed to flogging under any circumstances. He denied, however, having cast any imputations upon officers. He had only read a statement respecting them out of a newspaper.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that undoubtedly if one officer sells, another must buy, but the officer who sells does not, in such case, come upon the half-pay list, and, therefore, does not burden the public.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he was not so unjust as to suppose that any man who had paid for his commission should not have his money back again.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  seconded the Motion.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he wished to call the attention of the Committee to the case of the late Colonel Moore, who had met his death in a transport vessel  en route l. l.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he believed nothing to be more just than that, when an officer had become incapacitated by wounds or disease, he should be allowed to retire on half-pay. If the rule laid down with regard to retiring upon half-pay were adhered to, he did not think that any one could object to the half-pay list.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he would confine himself to the subject under discussion, but he thought it a good opportunity to revert to the vote they gave on a former occasion, and which led to the appointment of this Committee. He was one of those who, without hesitation, voted against the inquiry, as proposed by the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Roebuck). Now, that Motion was supported by the hon. Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Layard). He (Sir B. Hall) felt that if the
 43 44
 MR. CROSSLEY  said, he must deny that public feeling was in favour of this Committee, unless what appeared in the newspapers was to be taken for public feeling; but the public out of doors did not want the responsibility shifted from the right shoulders to the wrong. They did not want a Committee of that House to undertake the management of the war; but they expected the House of Commons to support a Ministry able and willing to carry on the war vigorously and to a successful issue, and to withdraw their confidence from any Administration not capable of such energetic conduct. He was quite sure that if the Committee were to sit with closed doors, and if, nevertheless, hon. Members generally were allowed to be present, reports of the evidence would be published from day to day in a most incorrect manner. If hon. Members were excluded, still statements would be gathered from the witnesses examined, and would be published in an equally incorrect style. He therefore said that if there was to be a Committee at all, it ought to be a public one. Let every question and answer be fully reported, and he was quite sure that the public would soon see that the object desired would never be attained by means of the Committee, and the war, to be properly managed, must be conducted by the Executive.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL : None others, excepting the Commissariat.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL , in reply to the observations of the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Williams), said, that the half-pay list had been fully looked into at the Horse Guards, and that every officer capable of doing duty had been called on to accept of service in the East. He believed the consequent reductions in the list amongst the subalterns and captains amounted to 200.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, the colonels had superintended the clothing for the ensuing year, but that after this year the Government intended to take upon itself the clothing of the army.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that the warrant referred to had been in the hands of hon. Members for some time. The hon. and learned Gentleman, how-
 64
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that in consequence of the augmentation which had taken place in the army, a number of ensigncies had been created, and a certain portion of them had been sold by the Government with the intention of investing the money, he believed, in Exchequer bills, for the purpose of reducing the half-pay list.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that the sale referred to took place before he had entered upon his present office, but it certainly was not intended to continue it, because it had exclusive connection with the recent augmentation in the army.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, he imagined it would be in the office of the General Commanding in Chief. Who the parties were in whose name the money was invested he could not state without inquiry.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, he had previously stated that the sum received had been invested in Exchequer bills, and, it was at present understood, would be held for the purpose of reducing the charge on the half-pay list, which otherwise would be considerably swollen when the number of commissions now in existence were reduced upon the termination of the war.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that a circular had been sent from the War Office to the surgeons of militia regiments, requesting to know whether they were willing to proceed to the East. That circular had not been out more than eight or ten days, and he was informed that no offers had been as yet made in answer to those circulars. With regard to the sending out of civil practitioners to the East, the head of the medical department had been authorised to procure the services of ten practitioners to serve in the army and the hospitals, and an establishment with twenty surgeons was in course of erection at Smyrna.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, the staff sergeants who were serving with the militia would receive, in addition to their pay, 1 s. d. l., l. l. 10
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, in reply, that Smyrna had been represented as an unsuitable place for the establishment of a hospital; but, before its establishment, commissioners had been sent out, who reported it as favourable, and the salubrity would depend upon the interior management and arrangement of the hospital itself.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, he was most unwilling to say anything which might seem disparaging with respect to the claim of the private soldiers of our army to the gratitude of their country, but he must remind the Committee that during a time of war the compassionate feelings of the country were very deeply excited by the sacrifices and sufferings of our soldiers and officers, and that the Government were called upon to be liberal, and even profuse, in affording assistance to them and to their families. But if the Government yielded to this pressure, the consequence was, that at the termination of the war they were charged with being extravagant and forgetful of the economical interests of the country. It had been said that in this Vote there was a great anomaly, as it did not recognise the claims of the widows and orphans of private soldiers and non-commissioned officers, but that it recognised only the claims of widows and children of officers. Now, it should be recollected that no provision was made for the orphan children of officers, but that a liberal provision was made for the children of soldiers. The House had recently granted the sum of 23,367 l.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that such a measure would be a very fitting subject for consideration.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that the terms of the warrant would be relaxed to meet such cases.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL : That was for the widow of the Protestant chaplain.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that it was not the intention of Government to make any reduction in the establishment at Kilmainham at present.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, he was not aware why there had been an omission in the Estimates this year with reference to the salary of the Roman Catholic chaplain at Kilmainham. If that clergyman continued to discharge the same duties as last year, he saw no reason why he should not receive the same amount of salary.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that certain regulations were made prior to the chaplains being sent out to the East. The Presbyterian and Church of England clergymen were paid at the rate of 16 s. l., l. l.,
 MR. F. PEEL  said, that several kinds of breech-loading weapons were under the consideration of the Ordnance, but that some time must necessarily elapse before the officers intrusted with the examination of them could recommend that any improvement should be adopted.
 MR. BOWYER  said, he understood that the proposition for a Secret Committee was advocated because the Committee would thereby be enabled to erase such portions of the evidence as in their opinion ought not to be published. That, at first sight, might appear to be a specious argument; but unless the public were to hear not only the truth, but the whole truth, they would not be satisfied. If any part of the evidence were omitted, the remainder would be worthless; for the part omitted might modify or explain the part placed before the public. He believed the difficulties of the investigation were greatly overrated. The proceedings in the Crimea had been fully canvassed in the newspapers and in that House, and they had not heard anything of blame or misconduct attached to their allies. On the contrary, everything that had become known showed that we had received from them the most valuable assistance, and that their services were of the utmost importance. There was no danger that anything could possibly be said in the investigations before the Committee that would offend the sensibilities of the French. If the Committee were public there would be less danger of anything indiscreet being said. Men would talk nonsense and say imprudent things in a Secret Committee, which they would not dare to utter if they spoke under the constant check of public opinion, and of the persons who were in their presence. The publicity itself would be the best security against the occurrence of anything that was urged as an objection against the publicity of the Committee. It was said that the public characters of the generals and other persons would be impeached, and that from day to day the proceedings would be made public, and that charges against them would appear in the public press; but if he (Mr. Bowyer) were one of those persons, he would much rather
 61
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that no Under Secretary for the Colonies had yet been appointed. The right hon. Gentleman was probably aware that no successor could be appointed at present, as only two Under Secretaries could sit in the House of Commons. Notice had been given of the introduction of a Bill to allow a third to sit in that House, and if the Bill should receive the sanction of Parliament, the appointment would at once take place. In reply to the second question of the right hon. Gentleman, he had to state that the Government had at present no intention of proposing any measure with reference to the Bill for creating a constitution for the Australian Colonies. The attention of his noble Friend the Member for the City of London would, however, be directed to the subject. The delay in this matter had been unavoidable, and the Government had not yet received the definite decision as to the views of the different Legislatures of Australia. With reference to the third question, all he could say was, that no official information had been received with respect to any disturbances in Victoria.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to know from the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Peel), whether there were any Supplementary Estimates for the Army forthcoming, in addition to those now produced, and he would particularly wish to be understood as referring to the Land Transport Service.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he thought it was the duty of that House to take care that the inquiry should enter a safe channel. They should tell the Committee not only what they were to inquire into, but what they were not to inquire into. They should ascertain why it was that, with the vast means at their disposal, and the vast expense that had been incurred, they had been unable to maintain the army that was sent to the East. That was a safe inquiry, limited to their own establishments and departments, and to their own people and officers. It would not be necessary even to make a run upon individuals. Nothing would be more unjust than to charge upon a few of the Members belonging to the late Government the exclusive blame of what occurred in the Crimea. The question of the policy of the war would be one for future consideration, but the immediate object of any inquiry at the present moment should be to explain the unaccountable disasters, arising principally from want of system. It would be an act of madness on their part if they did not give instructions to the Committee, and
 60
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Sir, on a former occasion the House was so indulgent as to listen with patience to many reasons which I thought it proper then to adduce against the progress of this inquiry; but the country having loudly demanded an inquiry, and this House, the representative of the public, having appointed a Committee to prosecute that inquiry, I bow to their decision, and it would ill become me to repeat or to refer to arguments which, at the right time, I offered in vain. I think rather that, occupying again a private station, it becomes me, as taking part in this deliberative Assembly, if difficulties have arisen, and if there should be any degree of danger in this inquiry, to offer my opinion freely as to the best mode of avoiding these dangers, and of conducting the inquiry upon which the House has determined. I therefore shall abstain from any further reference to the former debate, or to any of the arguments which I then used. It does appear, certainly, somewhat extraordinary that at the very first meeting of this Committee, composed only of eleven Members, of whom nine were present, and in whom the House has been called upon to place implicit confidence, a great difference of opinion should have arisen among them. So great is the difference of opinion that already a division has arisen among the Members composing the Committee. Upon the very threshold of the inquiry, on the very day the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Roebuck) is voted into the chair, the Committee find themselves involved in such very great difficulties that really, in spite of all that has been said, it now becomes the duty of this House to rescue the inquiry from the disgrace of falling into the hands of a hole-and-corner Committee. Now, it is not a bare Report with which the House has been presented. Though terse, it is very pointed, and contains the reasons which have induced a majority of the Commit-
 30 31 32 33 pointing to the mace upon the clerk's table 34 35
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to ask whether any successor had been appointed to the hon. Member for Bury (Mr. F. Peel), who recently held the office of Under Secretary for the Colonies—whether it was the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill with respect to the Australian constitution—and whether the Government had received any intelligence of serious disturbances having occurred in the colony of Victoria, as stated in the third edition of the morning newspapers?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I am very glad the hon. Gentleman has retracted his original statement. For my part, I disclaim now, as I have before disclaimed, any intention of attacking any individual. But the speech of the hon. Gentleman has not been one addressed to the question now before us, as to whether this shall be a Secret Committee, but, on the contrary, was a speech confined entirely to a discussion of the propriety of the vote come to by the House for the appointment of this Committee. The noble Lord the Member for Totness (Lord Seymour) tells us that the application of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield is not founded on any State secret that has come before the Committee, and with regard to which secrecy is desirable. Now, that statement seems to me quite superfluous. We have discovered nothing new, indeed, for the very simple reason that we have not yet commenced our inquiries; but the first step we had to take was to consider, as it is ordinarily called, the proceedings of the Committee; and when we began to consider what those proceedings were to be,
 27 28 29
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I have the honour, Sir, of being a Member of this Committee, and, as I am a party to the application now made to the House, I wish to state shortly what are my views upon the subject. The hon. Gentleman the Member for North Lancashire has stated that this Committee is viewed as an attack upon the Duke of Newcastle.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he was sorry to say that these commissions were given sometimes as a mere matter of patronage, while a fund might be created from such commissions wherewith to relieve the widows.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he must request the Committee to consider what had been suggested by his hon. Friend the Under Secretary of War. At the present moment, when operations were going on, and when the generous feelings of the public were excited by the gallant deeds of our officers and soldiers, the national impulse was to deal liberally and generously in all those matters that concerned the families of the officers and soldiers of the army. Pensions for wounds, for widows, and provisions for orphans, were liberally made. But on the return of peace, Committees were appointed to inquire into the amount of the Army Estimates, and Reports were made as to the great and heavy amount of the charge. Government was then urged to pare down and diminish the provisions made in the moment of liberality, and the allowances made were taken away on the plea of an economical prudence. The House of Commons ought, therefore, to preserve the greatest caution not to embark in grants which might be irksome to the country afterwards to maintain, and which they could not, in good faith or without causing serious disappointment, take away or diminish. That applied especially to the proposition made for pensions to the widows
 73
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he would now move for leave to bring in a Bill to enable a third Secretary and third Under Secretary of State to sit in the House of Commons. By an Act of 6  Anne, Geo. Geo.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he certainly could not undertake to oppose the measure on the grounds which had been urged by the hon. and gallant Colonel. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Murrough) had requested to introduce his Bill without prefacing it by any statement; now such a course was only allowed as a matter of courtesy, when any hon. Member brought forward a Bill, the provisions of which were unknown to the House. This was not a case of that sort, because everybody knew the nature of the measure which the hon. Member proposed. For his own part, he differed from the hon. Gentleman, for, although in Scotland no qualification for Members was required, that arose out of the Act of Union, and was an exception to the rule applicable to England and Ireland. He did not think there was any logic in an attempt to make the rule bend to the exception; but this was not the moment to enter into any detailed reasons why it seemed to him that it was not such a measure as it was desirable should be adopted. He would take the broad principle, that if any changes were to be proposed in the representative system of the country, there was an understanding that those changes should not be proposed now, but should be postponed to another period. On that ground, therefore, he should object to the introduction of the Bill.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I wish shortly to state the grounds on which I am adverse to the Motion brought forward by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield. I confess that when this Motion was first announced yesterday my own impressions were strongly against it, but at the same time I wished to hear the reasons, if any, for the course that it was intended to adopt. I have listened with great attention to everything that has passed, and I am bound to say that I have not heard anything which in any degree tends to alter the opinion which I at first sight entertained in this matter. No doubt, when this Committee was first proposed, I felt the objections which have been urged by my hon. and learned Friend in his Motion to make this Committee a secret one. I felt that it was possible—and I stated so to the House—that it was very likely, that in the course of the inquiry there might arise matters involving in danger the relations that so happily subsist between us and our great Ally, but the House overruled this consideration. It was stated not only by me, but by many others, that this evil might arise out of the investigations of the Committee; but the House, with the full knowledge of this probability determined twice, nay thrice, that the inquiry should be prosecuted. I
 46
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he was not at all surprised at the appeal which had been made by the right hon. and
 13 14
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, two telegraphic despatches have been received—one from Berlin and the other from the Hague—stating that the Emperor of Russia died in the course of this forenoon.
 MR. PERCY  said, he would take that opportunity of calling the attention of his right hon. Friend the Member for South Wiltshire (Mr. S. Herbert) to a statement which had appeared in one of the public journals, that Dr. Meyer, who had been appointed to the direction of one of our hospitals in the East, was a German gentleman who was not possessed of any diploma, and whose only qualifications for the situation to which he had been appointed were, that he had managed a lunatic asylum abroad, and had attended with some regularity the levees of His Royal Highness Prince Albert. He wished to ask his right hon. Friend whether there was any truth in this statement?
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that there was one very easy means of improving the education of the army without costing the country anything, and that was simply by ensuring employment to those officers who knew their duty. The great reason why we had no good staff officers was, that, whatever might be their attainments, their study, or their knowledge, they found them no recommendations for employment. Another great reason for the deficiency of our staff officers was the fact that there did not exist in the English language a single really useful work devoted to a description
 108 état major
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  said, he hoped the hon. Member for Richmond did not intend to press his Motion to a division, but notwithstanding he thought the Government had adopted a proceeding which would prove injurious to the army by promoting sergeants to the rank of officers. Composed as the English army was, it required great caution as to the system of promotion which should be adopted. If there should be an indiscriminate promotion of non-commissioned officers, it would inevitably do injury both to the army and to the individuals themselves. He was glad to find that the Government was taking the whole system of the army into their consideration. That was much better than having isolated Motions brought forward by independent Members, which only had the effect of preventing the Government taking immediate and decisive measures on the subject.
 COLONEL KNOX  said, he thought it would be of great advantage to their service if the system adopted in foreign armies was carried out. There, when a young officer was perfect in his military duties, he was for a short time attached to the artillery, then to the engineers and the cavalry; and he thereby learned the routine of all the branches of the service. There was no means in their service by
 111
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he understood that an unfavourable Report had been forwarded to the Government as to the unhealthy site of the proposed hospital at Smyrna. He believed it was more so than Scutari, and, after the month of May, it would be very destructive to the lives of our soldiers. He hoped that those who were qualified to give advice on this matter would be listened to. As to the supply of greatcoats to the army and the militia, he would suggest, as he conceived it impossible for the Ordnance, for some time to come at least, to furnish the necessary supply, that the colonels of each regiment should be authorised to furnish them, and should only receive the actual price. Many of the greatcoats supplied to the French army—a portion of which were lent to our troops —had actually been made in London, and yet our army was most imperfectly supplied. The boots that had been sent were all, he understood, too small, and were consequently useless. They were wanted to wear over the men's ordinary shoes, and they ought to have been made large in proportion. He wished to know whether, in the camp equipage, tents were included. Last year he had several times called attention to the state of the tents when the expedition was going out, and he observed particularly that at that time they had no lining. He had not yet heard whether that want had been supplied. He
 124 l 125
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, that he had been a member of the Committee on small arms last year, before whom it was stated that the price of 3 l s 130 l l l l l 131 l l l l l l
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, the hon. Gentleman the Clerk of the Board of Ordnance had undertaken to defend his department, which both that House and the Government had condemned. But he did not wish to say anything more on that subject, for the Board was now done away with. The hon. Gentleman had said that he did not wish to deprive the makers of the rifle which had won the battle of the Alma and of Inkerman of the advantage of still making them. But who did make then? Why, they were made at Birmingham. And yet the Government wished to have a factory
 146 l l l
 COLONEL KNOX  said, he would suggest to the hon. Member for Lambeth that
 150
 COLONEL KNOX  said, he would like to know where the hon. Member would get his 10,000 soldiers? Why, they were not in existence.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that the sum specified for warm and waterproof clothing, in addition to the money already voted for that purpose, made up a very large amount.
 COLONEL KNOX  said, he did not approve of voting 90,000 l
 MR. PERCY  said, he hoped the attention of the Government would be directed not only to the quality of the clothing, but also to the manner in which it was made up. He believed that the sum paid for making a great coat was from 6 d d
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he could bear testimony to the fact that, until recently, the cloth supplied to all the regiments, except a few favoured ones, was of the very worst description.
 MR. MILES  said, there was another defect in the boots supplied besides the want of nails; namely, that they were so badly stitched and put together, that in a very short time the sole came away from the body of the boot. What he (Mr. Miles) rose for, however, was to seek for some information with regard to the clothing of foreign regiments. There were items in the Estimates which had special reference to a foreign legion, and as he was informed that not a man had been enrolled under the Bill on that subject, he wished to know whether the Turkish contingent was to be regarded as the foreign legion. At present the foreign legion was purely imaginary, which he trusted that the Turkish contingent was not. The Committee could not be expected to vote 90,000 l
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he would recommend the hon. Gentleman, after the expression of opinion upon the 15,000 l
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished to put a question relative to the hammered-iron ordnance. Experiments had been directed to be made, and he, as a soldier, interested in the question, wished to know whether any report had been made on the subject? He wished also to know, whether any report of the experiments under the superintendence of Colonel Simmons had been made?
 MR. SCHOFIELD  said, he must contend that this was not a mere Birmingham question, but one affecting the country at large. The gun trade formed a very small fraction of the trade of Birmingham, and it was not on account of the supposed interests of Birmingham, but because he believed the Government could not provide themselves so well with arms as private manufacturers could do, that he was opposed to the Vote.
 LORD ELCHO  said, that it had been stated that the boots sent out to the Crimea were generally too small for the men. Some time ago on visiting a contractor's shop, he saw some boots, which he was told was going to the Crimea. On his remarking that they appeared to him too small, the answer given was that there were three sizes, and that those which he saw were the smallest. He observed, too, that these boots had no nails in them; and Gentlemen who were in the habit of walking much in the country would bear him out in the statement, that without nails in the boots or shoes it was impossible to walk comfortably. On his remarking in the shop that the boots in question had no nails, the contractor said to him, "The subject has been maturely considered. I
 154
 LORD ELCHO  said, he wished to know if the great coats were waterproof? The very lightest material might now be made waterproof. He also wished to know if any provision was made for great coats similar to those hung up in the sentry-boxes in other countries. He had noticed that during the late severe weather the
 153
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he was in some degree responsible for the appointment of Dr. Meyer, because he recommended him to his noble Friend now at the head of the War Office (Lord Panmure). There must be some great misapprehension, because Dr. Meyer was an Englishman, born at Norwood, near London. He was educated at Hammersmith, afterwards at Eton,
 98
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  said, what he had to complain of was, that the shell jackets served out to the militia in Scotland were without lining, to save a shilling a jacket; and wore out very soon, so that the militia recruits had the expense of lining them.
 MR. LAYARD : Was he not sent away from the Crimea after an investigation on a charge of misconduct? That is what I meant by the question.
 MR. LAYARD : Am I to understand Dr. Lawson was merely sent from the Crimea to the hospital, but not to take charge of it?
 MR. LAYARD  said, he wished to ask the hon. Under Secretary of State for War whether any brigade and divisional orders had been issued in the army before Sebastopol, to the effect "that no questions must be answered by medical men attached to the forces without permission from head-quarters;" whereby medical men attached to the army were precluded from giving complete evidence to the Commission sent out to the East to inquire into the state of the medical department? Also, whether it was true that Dr. Lawson had been appointed to the superintendence of, or to any other high employment in, the hospitals of Scutari, Smyrna, or Rhodes; and, if so, by whose authority such appointment was made, and whether it had been sanctioned by the authorities at home?
 MR. LAYARD  said, the Committee had heard in the course of the discussion several pleasing instances of the neglect, mismanagement, and ignorance of the Government departments. The observations of the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Muntz) and of the hon. Member for Coventry (Sir J. Paxton) could not fail to make some impression on hon. Members. These exposures were coming to be too frequent; and, what was very curious, they never heard of any person being punished on account of these things. There was one subject upon which he would like to have some explanation from the clerk of the Ordnance—he meant with respect to the fusees. He could bear witness to the fact, that the fusees issued during the early part of the siege of Sebastopol were so disgracefully bad, that out of every ten shells thrown, no more than three or four burst at all. He believed a Report was made to the head of the department upon the subject, representing that gross negligence had been shown in the construction of the shells, and he should like to know whether that Report, drawn up in the middle of last October, had been sent to this country, and whether in consequence
 133 l l 134 135
 MR. COWAN  said, the feeling described by the hon Member for Stirling prevailed among his own constituents; the evil being increased by the fact that, in Scotland, the militia were billeted on the inhabitants generally.
 MR. NEWDEGATE : He wished to know if the sight, as at present arranged, had been recommended by Mr. Richards? He happened to know that such was not the case; and while upon that subject he would read to the Committee a paragraph which appeared in the  Times "It may be remembered that some time ago I called attention to the curious arrangement of sending down each sick man with his rifle and pouch filled with cartridges. The rifles are put into store, and the notion was that the sick man might return to use them. Alas, the expectation has been too often unfounded; and the muskets have been left to lie in damp till they are covered with thick rust. The rifles and muskets gathered up from the battle-field have been left frequently in the same condition. Just see the result. When the last battalion of the 71st regiment came here they were provided with 400 of these Minié Rifles from store; 400 of the men were left with the old firelock. On the morning of the first day after they landed the regiment was marched out to support the Rifles against the expected attack of the enemy on the heights. Their rifles were thick with rust, but they loaded them as usual. Yesterday, when they tried to fire off the charges, not one-half of the rifles went off. That would have been the case had the enemy come on, but it would not be so again, for now the arms are cleaned and fit for use. Surely they ought to be kept clean and fit for use in store? The men are not provided with apparatus for drawing the Minié ball; in order to clean the piece it must be discharged." 145
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he hoped, if the Vote were passed, that the noble Lord at the head of the Government would take immediate steps to assure the gunmaking trade that he did not intend to supersede them; otherwise the Vote would do more to shake their confidence than anything that could be done.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that he had served on the Committee last year to consider the supply of small arms; the appointment of that Committee was the result of the proposal of the Government to found an arms factory, on the plea that they could not procure arms from the trade. The hon. Member who had spoken last but one (Mr. Dundas) had been a Member of that Committee; he heard the evidence, which decided the votes of the majority of that Committee against the proposal of the Government, who had sanctioned the appointment of that Committee; but the hon. Member had twelve years before seen the arms factory erected by the Government of the United States at Springfield, and therefore he could not believe that arms could be procured elsewhere than from a Government arms factory. He was an illustration of the fact, that there are some men who cannot learn. It was proved before that Committee that the arms trade of England had not only supplied the Government of this country, when fairly treated, but had at different times supplied large quantities of arms to the French, to the Spanish, to the Portuguese, to the Peruvian Government; in short, at different times, they had supplied large quantities of arms to the Governments of almost every country, and constantly supplied the whole quantity of arms required for our Indian army; and yet the Government departments wanted to persuade the House that the arms trade of England could not supply the English army, although a committee of the United States' House of Representatives had, in their report on the application for a renewal of Colonel Colt's patent, termed England the heart of the arms trade of the world. It had required some contrivance to establish even a seeming ground to so untenable a proposition; so Mr. Lovell, who had been inspector of small arms for the Ordnance for some years, had during the years 1851–2–3 established such stringent regulations for viewing the materials for arms, sent in by the trade, that one of the Government viewers, in his evidence, declared that it was impossible for the trade to supply materials for 25,000 arms at the price given by the Ordnance subject to those regulations, and that he had been compelled to reject quantities of serviceable materials. Even this,
 136 l l l 137 138 l l l 139 140 141
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had, in the course of his speech, stated that Mr. Westley Richards had entirely approved of every part of the present musket.
 MR. E. BALL  said, he was not a military man, but he thought it was a shame that British soldiers should be clothed in coats which cost only 6½ d
 MR. G. DUNDAS  said, he was surprised at the hostility evinced by several hon. Members to the manufactory at Enfield for making small arms by self-acting machinery, under the surveillance of the Government. Last year, when there was not such a demand for arms as there was now, objections might fairly enough have been raised to that establishment; but he must confess that he was at a loss to understand the opposition to it in the present emergency, unless, indeed, it was to be attributed to a desire on the part of hon. Gentlemen who represented manufacturing districts to support the interests of their constituents. The question before the
 132
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he should most certainly divide the Committee against the Vote for 40,000 l l l l l l l 126 s d s d s d 127
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he should move as an amendment that the vote be reduced by 40,000 l
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he was astonished that the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) should say that he was influenced by local interest at the country's expense. No man was more anxious than he (Mr. Muntz) was to avoid being so influenced, and whenever the question was between local interests and that he always flung the former to the winds. He should move the reduction of the present Vote, because he was convinced that, by so doing, he would be serving the interests of the country. As a specimen of the way in which the Ordnance conducted itself in its relations with manufacturers at Birmingham, he would read to the Committee the following letters—
 "Office of Ordnance, August 4, 1854. "Gentlemen,—A report having been made to the Board of Ordnance that you have failed to make the deliveries of the undermentioned articles, due from you within the time specified on your contract— "Date of Contract. "Articles, "October 6, 1853, 0–411. "Bayonets. "I am commanded to acquaint you therewith, and to desire you will immediately state why you have not fulfilled your contract; and I am further to inform you that the penalties attached thereto will be levied upon all the articles not delivered by the time limited. "J. WOOD. "Messrs. W. Deakin and Sons." "Hazelwell Mills, near Birmingham, "August 7, 1854. "Sir,—We beg respectfully to inform you that our order for bayonets, dated the 6th of October, 1853, 0–411, was completed the 4th day of July last being within the time specified in our contract. "WM. DEAKIN AND SONS." "J. Wood, Esq." l.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said that, in referring to the charge for hospitals, he had read that day in a newspaper some excellent suggestions about having floating hospitals. We knew that at Scutari and Balaklava the hospitals were crowded; and we had many large old ships, which might be sent out under jury masts, and conveyed by steamers, to become floating hospitals, with only men enough on board to keep them clean, and with a staff of nurses and surgeons. A ship could easily be ventilated when at anchor, and might be towed to another place when the patients became convalescent, to give them change of air.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  seconded the Motion.
 MR. BAILLIE  said, he wished to ask the hon. Gentleman the Clerk of the Ordnance whether the contracts for forage for the horses in the East were made by the Ordnance or the Treasury? This would not be a question to be asked on ordinary occasions, but during the war things had not been done in the ordinary manner, and the Committee would not be surprised to hear that the horses were sent without forage, or the forage without horses. After the way in which the horses of the cavalry, artillery, and commissariat had been starved in the Crimea, and knowing that between 15,000 and 16,000 horses were to be sent out for the Commissariat, he thought he was justified in asking which department made the contracts for forage.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, he wished to call attention to the fact that the Irish Militia were without arms, and in corroboration of the fact he would state a circumstance which had occurred in his own county. Not having received any printed forms, his regiment had sent a requisition for arms to the Quarter Master General in Dublin, in manuscript. That officer sent it back to the general of the district, stating that the requisition ought to have gone through him (the general of the district), and that he could take no notice of any that was not printed. The general of the district, therefore, transmitted it to him (Mr. Herbert). He had to send to London for a printed requisition to apply for arms; and the consequence was that two months had passed by, and the regiment had not got a single musket. In the mean time the general of the district had ordered his
 156
 MR. RICH  said, that after the satisfactory statement the Government had made, he would not press his Motion.
 MR. RICH  said, he had intended to move for a Committee to inquire into the military education of our officers, both staff and regimental, but he found that he should not be able to bring on a motion to that effect before Easter, and therefore he was reluctantly compelled to forego his intention. The subject was, however, so important that he could not omit altogether calling the attention of the House to it. It was a lamentable fact that this nation, foremost in all peaceful arts, was not so in military matters. That, without doubt, chiefly arose from our imperfect organisation, and also from the fact that for the army officers were not specially educated. It was impossible without that education that officers could be fitted for their duties, and still less keep pace with the scientific improvements which surrounded them. With the exception of the Duke of Wellington's campaigns, and a few brilliant but isolated exploits, the history of our army from the time of Marlborough was one of blunder and failure, and not unfrequently of disaster, whereas that of the navy was one of great achievements and an almost unbroken series of successes. Why, he would ask, was there that difference? Was it not that in the navy every officer entered it as a profession, and was duly and professionally educated and subjected to severe tests before he was advanced? It was essentially treated as a profession, and its officers sustained and encouraged to undergo its severe labours by the hope of gaining its rewards. The navy were always ready whenever they were required, at the beginning, at the close, or during the progress of a war; but not so the army. We were told that there was no practi-
 99 100 l 101 l 102 103
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, that while he was willing to vote with the most lavish generosity every sum of money actually necessary for bringing to a conclusion the present war, he thought a strict scrutiny should be made of the various items proposed. He had the greatest faith in the noble Lord at the head of the Ministry, but thought a most unfortunate selection of men had been made in the formation of the Ministry.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he objected to the Vote, and should move that the Chairman report progress.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he was only anxious to have the subject discussed, and, on the understanding that another opportunity would be given for that purpose, would withdraw his amendment.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he hoped the House would not rush into the opposite extreme, under the idea that education would make a good general. The Duke of Marlborough, it was well known, was one of the most illiterate men of his day, and Marshal Saxe could not sign his own name. With the exception of Bernadotte, there were few of the French marshals—and he might certainly say neither
 110
 MR. MASTERS SMITH  said, he strongly advised that care should be taken for the better ventilation of hospitals; and recommended that the museum of anatomy and natural history at Fort Pitt should be better supported than it had been.
 COLONEL GILPIN  said, he did not join in the hon. Member's objection to the cost of barracks, for if we had a large number of troops in the country they were better in barracks than anywhere else; but he would ask whether any arrangements had been made, since last year, for the better accommodation of married men in barracks? He called attention to this subject last year, and was then told it should receive full consideration, but he was sorry to see that the same disgraceful system still existed. He saw no reason why rooms should not be set apart for married people, and a provision made for enclosing such a space for each couple as was necessary for convenience and decency. He did hope that this subject would be attended to; he was sure the public would not object to any reasonable expense to remedy so great a grievance. We were attempting now to model cottages and lodging houses,
 151
 MR. WALPOLE  said, there existed a misapprehension that an account of the Resolution come to by the Small Arms Committee last year, the Government had been prevented from obtaining as large a supply of arms as otherwise they would have done, but he believed that, had the Vote been carried last year, it would have
 157
 MR. BELLEW  said, he thought, as reference had been made to the charge at Balaklava, the House ought not to forget that the order in that case was a written one, and had the officer who carried it to the general of division simply delivered it the charge in question might not have been made.
 MR. EWART  said, he wished to ask the hon. Under Secretary of State for War whether there could be laid before the House any statement of the measures now adopted for further promoting the education and professional competency of officers in the army; also of any measures adopted for giving useful and practical in-
 96
 MR. MONSELL  said, that the present Estimate for the expenses of the Ordnance Department was the largest that had ever yet been laid before Parliament. Although the estimates showed such a very large increase of expenditure, there were few hon. Members in the House who would not be able to give a reason for the increase of almost every one of the items. He would first call the attention of the Committee to the Supplementary Estimates, for which a Vote had previously been taken, but no details of which had been presented to the House. The total amount of the Supplementary Estimates for last year was 1,402,961 l l l l l l l l l l 112 l l Prince 113 Robert Lowe Prince, l 114 l l s d l l l l 115 l l l 116 l 117 l l l l l l l l l 118 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 119 l l l l l l l l l l 120 l s l s l s l s d l s d s d s d s d s d l s l s d s l s l s d l 121 l l l l 122 l l l l l l l 123 l l
 MR. MONSELL : What I said was, that the musket now being manufactured was being made in accordance with the pattern which Mr. Westley Richards recommended.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he had never heard, since he had had the honour of a seat in the House of Commons, a statement which he could declare of his own knowledge to have been more entirely unfounded and erroneous than the one just made by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire; and this he thought he could
 142 143 l l l 144
 MR. MONSELL  said, that the Ordnance did not, and he could not say which department did. The Treasury had made use of the Ordnance to furnish some oats.
 MR. MONSELL  replied, that labourers were so employed. As for the soldiers, most of them, being fresh recruits, were so
 152
 MR. MONSELL  said, he thought the name of "huts" had rather misled the hon. Gentleman; those huts were in fact wooden barracks, which were so constructed that if they were taken proper care of they would last twenty years; and there was great want of larger accommodation for the army and militia, especially in Ireland, and also in this country; and unless it were provided, there was no possibility of getting rid of those inconveniences to which the hon. Member for Bedfordshire (Colonel Gilpin) had alluded, and which he agreed in considering most objectionable.
 MR. MONSELL  said, for the circumstance of the boots being without nails he was not at all responsible, as that article was not supplied by the Ordnance, but by the army clothier.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he took very much the same view of the unfitness of the great coats as the hon. and gallant Member for Marlow; they were not at all what they ought to have been. But the fact was, that it was thought desirable to get the lightest possible article, that the soldier should have the less weight to carry. He believed they had been properly surveyed, and were according to pattern; and there was, consequently, no ground to charge any one with fraud.
 MR. MONSELL  said, the right hon. Gentleman was perfectly right in his conclusion. It would have been impossible for Government to manufacture the arms required in any circumstances.
 MR. MONSELL  replied, he should have no objection to lay the Report on the table when it was received, but at present it had not yet been made.
 MR. MONSELL  said, that he hoped to be able to commence the manufacture about the beginning of July. A great portion of the American machinery had already arrived, and the building would soon be completed.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, if it were intended to furnish great coats to the militia, he thought it would be better that Government should furnish them, as they did to the regular army, rather than the colonels of the regiment. He wished to know, also, whether the Master General of the Ordnance (Lord Raglan) was still receiving the salary attached to the office?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, there was one very material point to which he would wish to call the attention of the Committee. He was very happy to hear that the Ordnance Department was to be transferred hereafter to that of the Secretary for War, as was also the Commissariat. By this arrangement an enormous saving might be effected. He observed there were ninety-one storekeepers' establishments, and fifty-four barrack establishments at home and abroad, making altogether 145 such establishments in connection with the Ordnance Department; and there were besides, in nearly all the same places, other establishments connected with the Army, with the Commissariat, and also with the Navy. Now, if the noble Lord would grant an inquiry he (Mr. Williams) would undertake to show that by uniting all those establishments a great saving might be made, and these departments more efficiently conducted. There was another remark he had to make: why had they voted 400,000 l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he must complain of the large expense to be incurred in the erection of barracks.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he thought it extraordinary that, when the Government were forming a new camp at Aldershot, they did not take advantage of it to instruct 10,000 soldiers in the building of their own huts—an art in which our men appeared to be very deficient.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he did not see any reason why, although these huts were intended as permanent barracks, the 10,000 soldiers who would be encamped there should not have learned how to construct them. Were any hired carpenters or labourers of any other class employed for the purpose?
 MR. OTWAY  said, he could not avoid expressing his surprise that the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of War, when speaking of the circumstances attending the expedition to the Crimea and the education of the officers, should have treated the subject as merely a question of money. With regard to the Motion before the House, he would observe that in France there were many colleges where persons were educated by the State; but in England no such thing could be said to exist.
 109
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, the hon.
 104 105 l. 106 107 étatmajor
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that he had no objection to produce a statement showing the system of regimental schools, and the nature of the examination which officers had to undergo before obtaining their first commissions. The larger measure, however, which had been contemplated last year, had been left in abeyance for some time, but was at present being taken up by Her Majesty's Government.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL : He was sent from the Crimea after he was censured in a general order by Lord Raglan.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL : The general orders were, that he should proceed to Scutari and report himself to the officer at the head of the hospital, but not to take charge in any way.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that in reply to the second question of the hon. Member for Aylesbury, he had to state that Lord Raglan, about the middle of January, had directed Dr. Lawson to proceed to the hospital at Scutari, where he had been placed in a subordinate capacity under the orders of Dr. Cumming, who was at the head of that hospital. There was no intention on the part of Government to place Dr. Lawson in charge of any hospital.
 SIR JAMES ANDERSON  said, he wished to know why the barrack establishments at home were not made more available for the lodging of the militia. A few days ago the Stirlingshire militia were billeted on the inhabitants, although there were very few troops in Stirling Castle; and much dissatisfaction was felt on the subject in the neighbourhood.
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  said, that after the experimental camp at Chobham had been established, it had been decided that it would be advisable for the Government to have at their disposal some large space for the purpose of exercising and encamping large bodies of troops, and, in consequence of that decision, a very excellent piece of land had been purchased for that purpose at Aldershot, a neighbourhood easy of access by two railways and a canal. They had heard for a considerable time that large barracks were to be erected there for the accommodation of troops which were to be ready for a large encampment in the spring. He found, however, that no steps whatever had been taken in the matter, that not even a tender was sent out before the 22nd of January, and then a tender was sent out for the erection of huts capable of accommodating 20,000 men, which huts were to be completed by the 15th of March. It struck him at the time that it was somewhat extraordinary that the Ordnance should allow so short a period as six weeks for erection of those huts, and he therefore entered into a calculation as to the amount of labour and material necessary for their erection. He found from that calculation that, from the number of trains required each day to carry the necessary materials, it would be impossible between the time the tender was accepted and the time fixed for the completion of the contract to supply those materials on the spot. He found also from the specification that the timber was to be fir from Motel, Riga, and Dantsic. More than three-fourths of the material used was to be yellow Christiana deal, and it would be found, on inquiry of any merchant or contractor, that there was
 128 l l 129
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, there is no doubt much truth in what the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Phillimore) has said, but the case comes to this—when you apply a test of qualification for a particular employment, you must take care not to employ a test applicable to another totally different employment. It is quite true that the attainments which qualify a man to be a good officer are not the same which would qualify a man to be a learned professor; and if you require your officers to pass an examination which will qualify them for a professorial chair, you will certainly commit a great error. Upon the other hand, great advantages would arise from taking care that upon each step of promotion an officer should keep himself up to proper progress in the attainments belonging to the profession of which he is a member. The qualities which constitute a good general are qualities which must be inborn in the man. The combination of qualities which make a great general is one of the rarest which occurs in the moral constitution of man. My belief is, that you will find a great many more men fitted to be successful statesmen than men suited to take command, and who have all the foresight necessary for the performance of the duties attaching to that station. At the same time, it is highly important that your officers should keep well up and make progress in their profession; and those examinations which have been alluded to are examinations which I think ought to be tests of military knowledge. It would be desirable that that test should not only be applied upon the first entrance into office, but that the officers should also understand that unless they occupy their minds and perfect themselves in those matters which are essential to a proper performance of military duties, they will not gain such promotion as they are desirous to obtain.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that he would answer the first question of his hon. Friend, and his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for War would reply to the second. Her Majesty's Government had received no official information of any such divisional or brigade orders as those to which his hon. Friend had alluded; but they had been informed by private correspondence that some such orders had been issued. He could only assure his hon. Friend that their meaning must have been that the medical officers were not to place themselves in communication with the Commission without authority so to do. He could not possibly conceive that the orders could have gone to the extent of, in any way, interfering with the functions of the Commission in obtaining every information necessary for the due performance of their duties. But his noble Friend at the head of the War Department had lately written out to inquire how the matter stood. At the present moment all that the Government knew about it was contained in a private letter, which, of course, could not be
 97
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the Vote was proposed in the expectation that the imaginary force would become a real one. Of course if it did not become so, no money would be spent. The Turkish contingent was a different matter altogether.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he concurred with his hon. Friends, that it was highly desirable that, wherever it was possible, the militia should be in barracks. When they were called out, it was intended that they should be so quartered; and that was one reason why they were not called out earlier. At first the Government called out only such a proportion of the militia as they thought could be lodged in barracks.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the Commissariat Department was responsible for the supply of forage.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he had heard with great surprise and astonishment the opposition which had been made to this Vote. We were engaged in a war which, by universal consent, it required the greatest exertion to conduct with success. It was well known that owing to various circumstances we had for some years past suffered from a great deficiency
 147 148 l l
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he hoped the hon. Member (Mr. Maguire) would not insist upon reporting progress, but take the discussion on the Report.
 MR. MILES  said he begged to ask the right hon. gentlemen the President of the Poor Law Board whether any communication had taken place between the President of the Privy Council and himself relative to the education of children receiving outdoor relief; and if so, whether there was any objection to lay such correspondence before the House?
 MR. MILES  said he could now ask the right hon. gentleman whether any communication had taken place between himself and the Emigration Commissioners relative to the Act passed by the New
 189 l.
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  said he begged to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, or the hon. gentleman the Under Secretary for War, if it was intended that the Crimean medal shall confer two years' additional service, or any peculiar advantages similar to those conferred by the Waterloo medal in 1815?
 MR. LIDDELL  asked whether the Government had received any official information from British Kaffraria which was likely to cause the apprehension of another Kafir war?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that he trusted the House would not re-
 196 197 bonâ fide 198 custodes morum 199
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : I never insinuated any such thing; on the con-
 202
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, that, at a very large meeting held last year in the manufacturing districts, the establishment of some court of this nature was approved of almost unanimously. He did not believe the courts in France, which had been alluded to, had any arbitrary power to settle the wages of any particular trade in any given district; they had only power over such things as were specially referred to them. He hoped the subject would not be lost sight of. They must not suppose, because a strike commenced in November, and was over in December, that it was all done with. It was put an end to then only to be renewed on a more favourable occasion, and left much ill-feeling. He thought the subject well deserved the attention of the Government, and he hoped that at all events the hon. Member (Mr Mackinnon) would not let it rest, but when he got the information would bring in a Bill on the subject.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he rose to move for a Select Committee, to inquire into the operation of the Acts regulating interments in parochial burial-grounds and proprietary and other cemeteries. The operation of recent legislation on this subject, in the metropolis, had been to compel the poorer classes to pay advanced burial fees, so that they were obliged to go to parochial boards for assistance.
 MR. CRAUFURD  in reply, said he could not reconcile the sneers of the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Attorney General) with his professed defence of Mr. James. The hon. and learned Gentleman had sneered at his having felt it to be a public duty to bring forward this Motion, and insinuated that he was actuated by private motives, and more, that he was the mouthpiece of some disappointed candidate.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he objected to the Motion. What he had stated was, that if a Committee were granted he should be prepared to prove the statements he had made; but when he found that even the hon. Gentleman left him who had seconded his Motion, he could not put the House to the trouble of dividing. The House having refused to grant an inquiry—a refusal equally unjust to himself and to the learned Gentleman whose name was involved in it—he (Mr. Craufurd) must still object to any such Motion as that his Resolution should not be placed on the Journals.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he had understood the hon. and learned Attorney General to maintain that the benchers of the Inner Temple, who acted upon some occasions as  custodes morum,
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he rose to move for the appointment of a Select Committee to take into consideration the case of the appointment of Edwin James, Q.C., to the office of Recorder of Brighton, the said Edwin James having been refused admittance to the Bench of the Inner Temple on account of his conduct in respect of certain transactions connected with the election for the borough of Horsham in 1847. He felt that, in undertaking to bring forward this question, he had entered upon a task of serious moment and of a very painful nature. It was not the less painful that Mr. James was a member of the same profession as himself, of the same inn, and of the same circuit. He was not actuated, however, by any personal motives. He had no acquaintance with Mr. James beyond the casual intercourse incidental to their meeting on circuit. He could bear testimony to that gentleman's eminent abilities, high legal attainments, and forensic talent, having often witnessed the ingenuity and skill with which he conducted the cases of his clients. But this appointment was of a judicial character, the holder of which should be above the slightest breath of suspicion. The question which he was about to bring under the notice of the House was one which ought not to be introduced on light grounds, but he felt satisfied, from the information in his possession, that if the House would grant him a Committee he should be able fully to prove his case. About a fortnight ago he asked the noble Lord at the head of the Government whether the new recordership of Brighton had been conferred upon a Queen's counsel who had been refused admittance to the bench of his inn? The noble Lord said it was not true that a gentleman had been appointed to the office referred to who had been refused admittance in the way stated. The learned person whom he had appointed had not been so refused. He had selected from amongst the candidates who had been
 192 193 l., l. 194 custodes 195 bona fides
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the report of the Royal Commission on the subject of the corporation of the city of London had now been for some time in possession of the House and the country. He wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department, whether he had had an opportunity of considering the report; and, if so, whether it was the intention of the Government to propose any measure during the present Session?
 MR. I. BUTT  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Ayr had thought fit to declare that the House had rejected his Motion for papers, which, if produced, would have established a charge of subornation of perjury against a respectable solicitor. The candidate for Canterbury, on behalf of whom that solicitor had acted, was his (Mr. Butt's) intimate friend, and, when the hon. and learned Gentleman made that charge on a former occasion, he (Mr. Butt) replied to it, and he was now surprised that the imputation should be repeated after the House had decided that an ample vindication of the accused party had been given.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, that no division having taken place, he should move that everything connected with this matter be expunged from the Journals of the House. There was a precedent for doing so in 1832, when the late Mr. Cobbett brought certain charges against Sir Robert Peel. Immediately after they had been negatived by the House, the House passed such a Resolution as he (Mr. Butt) now proposed;
 203
 MR. BAINES  said that a correspondence had taken place on the subject referred to, and he had no objection to its production.
 MR. BAINES  said he had no objection to lay the correspondence on the table.
 MR. INGHAM  said, he wished to refer to a court of arbitration of this kind which had been established in Sunderland and had worked very satisfactorily. He thought it would be very desirable if the Secretary of State for the Home Department would endeavour to give something like a legal constitution to those courts which had been voluntarily established in various places, so as to give authority to their judgments.
 MR. MACKINNON  said, he wished to understand the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department aright, and to know what he was to expect if he withdrew his Motion. He understood the right hon. Gentleman to ask him to wait until he could procure the information he had stated, and that then the Government would grant him a Committee if he (Mr. Mackinnon) thought it necessary. There would be no great probability of the House passing a Bill unless the matter were first referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. MACKINNON  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to the inconvenience now felt in this country from the want of equitable tribunals by means of which any differences between masters and operatives might be satisfactorily adjusted, and from which other advantages might be gained in disputed claims. He begged to move that an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that the necessary information as to the  Conseils des Prud'hommes 204 Geo. 205 Conseils des Prud' hommes, Conseils des Prud' hommes. Conseils des Prud' hommes,
 MR. WILKINSON  said, he had no objection to voluntary arbitration, but he objected to giving such tribunals any legal power to arbitrate on the rate of wages, or anything of that sort. Unless a court of arbitration had legal jurisdiction it would be inoperative, and if such powers were given it, there might be injurious interference in matters that should find their level in the market.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had not made any promise that a Committee would be granted. The object of this Motion was to ascertain the state of the law of France, and the operation of that law. He doubted whether a Commitee would afford the best means of obtaining information, which must all come from France. When the hon. Member obtained the information he desired he would be competent to move for the appointment of a Committee if he thought it necessary, but he (Sir G. Grey) could not at present pledge himself to support the appointment of a Select Committee.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, there could be no doubt as to the importance of any measure which could be adopted by which differences between masters and men could be satisfactorily arranged. He did not, however, think that there was any necessity for the appointment of a Committee or Commission to inquire into the subject referred to by the hon. Member, as the fullest and most complete information existed with reference to these institutions in an official edition of the French laws, which he should be happy to place at the
 206
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied, that a Bill was in preparation founded on the recommendations contained in the Report of the Commissioners for the reform of the Corporation of London; but it was desirable that the House should, in the first place, consider the Bills relating to the metropolis generally, which had been introduced by his right hon. Friend (Sir B. Hall). He hoped, however, to be able to bring in a Bill for the reform of the corporation in the course of the present Session.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that at the date of the last despatches from the Governor of the Cape of Good Hope, no act of hostility had taken place. Considerable uneasiness and alarm existed on the eastern frontier on account of the supposed hostile intentions of the Kafirs and
 191
 SIR JAMES DUKE  said, he willingly bore testimony, as a friend of Mr. James, to that gentleman's high character.
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  said, he wished to explain, at the same time, the reason why he had seconded this Motion. He had reason to think that the House, and especially the person who had been accused of improper practices, would rejoice that he had done so, because it had given the Attorney General and other persons an opportunity of vindicating that gentleman, whom he (Sir J. Walmsley) believed to have been injured by the statements which had been made. He had seconded the Motion upon the impulse of the moment, and at the request of the hon. and learned Member for Ayr; but, after the statements which he had heard, he certainly could not feel it consistent with his duty to vote for the Motion.
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  seconded the Motion.
 MR. ATHERTON  said, he thought that it was only justice to Mr. James that some other member of the profession, and one upon the bench of the Inner Temple, should confirm the statement of the hon. and learned Attorney General as to the qualifications and character of Mr. James, and also as to the practice of the bench of the Inner Temple. Although the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Craufurd) referred in his Motion to the transactions at Horsham, it was not, either by its terms or upon any fair construction, a Motion asking the House to grant a Committee, on the ground of Mr. James having been concerned in those proceedings. On the contrary, the only meaning which any one could arrive at from the speech of the hon. and learned Member was, that the hon. and learned Member asked for the Committee on the ground that certain transactions occurred some years ago at Horsham, upon which a competent tribunal of forensic morals—the bench of the Inner Temple—had pronounced a judgment adverse to and damnatory of Mr. James. The hon. and learned Gentleman (the Attorney General) had stated most correctly that it was no imputation at all—that it was not the slightest censure, by implication the most remote and shadowy, upon any gentleman, a member of the Inner Temple, who might receive a silk gown, that he was not forthwith elected a member of the bench. Of late years there had been many instances of gentlemen upon whose character, private and professional, not the slightest imputation could be cast, who had become Queen's counsel, but whom, for some reason, the benchers, exercising their absolute discretion, had declined to take into the bench. Upon this matter the bench, though a complaint was made, had pronounced no
 201
 MR. HUTT  said, that seeing, by official correspondence, that when the Duke of Newcastle found it necessary to recall Lord Lucan from the command of the British cavalry in the Crimea, he was compelled to obtain the interposition of Lord Hardinge for that purpose, he wished to ask the First Lord of the Treasury whether, among the improvements in the administration of the army which he pro-
 190
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that no change was intended to be effected in the military subordination of the army, and therefore the Commander in Chief would be the authority whose orders and directions would either appoint or withdraw officers from the staff; but the actions of the Commander in Chief would necessarily be subjected to the decision of the Government on matters of sufficient importance to require that decision, and their decision would be communicated to the Commander in Chief by the Secretary of State for the War Department.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he wished to repeat what he had stated on a former occasion that, when he was called upon to fill up the appointment in question, a great many applications were made, and he felt it his duty to ascertain which of the candidates, from professional standing and legal attainments, was best qualified for the office. He accordingly made inquiries, the result of which was that he arrived at the conclusion that Mr. James was, on the whole, from his position at the bar, and from the testimonials of his legal acquirements, the most competent person for the position. That gentleman had further in his favour the fact that a large number of the town-council of Brighton had signed a paper expressing a desire that Mr. James should be appointed the Recorder of that town. He (Lord Palmerston) had no personal knowledge of any of the candidates—had never seen any of them, and had no other motive in selecting Mr. James than to perform his duty to the best of his ability. As to the particular circumstances connected with the admission or non-admission of the learned Gentleman to the bench of the Inner Temple, he (Lord Palmerston) never heard of it until the hon. and learned Member gave notice of his question. Upon seeing that notice, he inquired and found what he stated in reply to the question, that Mr. James had not been rejected as a bencher because he had never been proposed.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said that, undoubtedly, the actions in the Crimea were actions in which the brave troops of this country displayed as much valour as ever was evinced on any former occasion; but, although a medal had been conferred, it was not intended to accompany it with the privilege of counting these actions as two years' service. The hon. Member must be aware that battles were fought in the Peninsula, in which the success was as great and complete as that obtained at Alma and Inkerman, but in respect to which no such privileges were conferred. The battle of Waterloo was an event of a totally different character. It put an end to a long war; it decided the fate of Europe; and was not a precedent for anything connected with the actions which have been fought in the Crimea.
 LORD STANLEY said, he thought the complaint not unreasonable that parties might in certain boroughs live at such a distance from these libraries as to derive little or no advantage from them. But in the free libraries of large Towns the power was given, not only of enabling persons to use the books in the library, but also to take them out and read them at their own homes. It was quite within the competence of those who managed these libraries to adopt such a regulation.
 MR. PERCY said, he considered that towns of less population than 5,000 should have the benefit of the measure.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD said, he wished to know whether more than one vote was to be given to the larger class of ratepayers?
 LORD STANLEY said, that to the greater part of this clause he had no objection, but there was one part in it which required explanation. The clause enacted that the council and commissioners might, with the approval of the Treasury, appropriate any lands purchased for the purposes of the Act, "for the general benefit of the parish." Those words gave very large powers, and he should like to know to what extent those powers were intended to go.
 LORD STANLEY said, he objected to the power given by this clause to divert certain land from the purposes of charity to which it was applicable at present. He wanted to know under what restrictions it was intended to make that diversion.
 LORD STANLEY said, he would agree to that course.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD said, he wished to suggest that, as they were
 217
 LORD STANLEY said, he was at first inclined to concur in the objection of his hon. Friend the Member for North Warwickshire, though not on the same ground. He thought the introduction of newspapers might raise a question analogous to church rates, and there would be great risk of introducing party feeling; but what overruled that objection was the fact that newspapers were sure to be sent to these libraries by persons who had an object to serve or opinions to advocate, and, whether the word were inserted or not, the management would have to exercise their discretion in the choice of newspapers.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD said, he thought the principal objection was that the greater proportion of the liability would fall on large outlying agricultural districts, whose inhabitants would be unable to avail themselves of the facilities given by the libraries for obtaining information. As to newspapers, in his opinion it would he most unfair that newspaper-rooms should be established at the expense of the agricultural districts. They could not be sent round like books, and if they could the result would be, that persons in the country would have the  Times
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL said, he did not consider the insertion of the word "newspaper" at all objectionable. The Bill sought to accomplish two great objects—first, to lead the labouring portion of the population from animal to intellectual pursuits, and, in the second place, to give them as much information as possible. However attractive general knowledge might be, nothing was so attractive as political knowledge, and if they shut out newspapers from libraries, they would deprive them of one of the principal attractions to be found in public houses. Why should they deprive the labouring classes of the opportunity of acquiring political knowledge? It had been said that newspapers of an improper character might be admitted. That did not necessarily follow surely, for they might well trust the selection to the good sense of those who had the management of the libraries, and they ought not, because they anticipated a possible evil, to exclude a real good.
 LORD STANLEY said, he considered that it would be much better to leave the matter to the discretion of the managers; great inconvenience would result from lending out works of reference, and it would be exceedingly difficult to define by Act of Parliament what were works of reference, if it were thought desirable to except such works from the operation of the Act.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD said, he wished to add the following words to the Clause:—"Provided always that no property so vested be liable for the repayment of any debt or encumbrance not incurred solely in the execution of the purposes of this Act."
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL said, he objected to the addition of the proposed words, which, he thought, would rather tend to defeat the object of the hon. Member. As the Bill now stood, the property vested would not be liable, to be taken on account of any charge for which the general borough fund was liable. agreed to, 221 agreed to.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL said, he considered that the Bill involved very important Amendments of the law, and it would be impossible in acceding to the second reading to do more than agree to the general principle of it. It was desirable that judgments obtained in one country of the United Kingdom should be enforced in another, and carried into effect in a prompt manner; but if the House, therefore, assented to the second reading of the Bill, they should assent only to it on the understanding that the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee for examination. He approved of the general objects of the measure, and on the terms he had stated he was inclined to concur in the proposition for the second reading.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL said, as the Bill had been submitted to a Select Committee last Session and not adopted, he thought it best not to agree to the second reading.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL said, he felt the force of the objections that had been urged by the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin, but when a Bill was proposed to be introduced by a private Member, the principle of which was admitted to be good, it was difficult to resist its introduction. If the Government did object to it, it would be said that, although they professed to be law reformers, they resisted a measure for the reform of the law. That they should enforce judgments in Ireland that were obtained in England no person could doubt, and that was the principle involved in the Bill before the House, but there were serious difficulties with regard to the details. The measure had already been before a Select Committee, and if sufficient labour had been bestowed on it he considered that many of the objections might have been removed; but as it had been submitted last year to a Select Committee, and, as the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin had said, they could not make anything more out of it, it would be useless to send it again to a Select Committee.
 COLONEL DUNNE said, that he had been requested by a great number of persons, his constituents and others, in Ireland, to oppose such a measure as the present, as likely to introduce great confusion into the law, and to prove very injurious to trade. When the Bill was brought in last Session the Lord Advocate of Scotland had vehemently objected to it on principle; and yet now the Attorney and Solicitor Generals for England approved of its principle.
 Mr. BOUVERIE having brought up the Report on the Committee of Supply, on the question that it be received,
 MR. DUNLOP said, it was his conviction that the present state of the law should not be allowed to continue. The principle of a Bill which would enable a party, who had obtained a decree either in England, or Scotland, or Ireland, to enforce judgment out of the particular country where the decree was obtained, was of such practical value that all parties should endeavour to arrange the machinery by which effect would be given to such a valuable measure. He trusted the Government would allow the Bill to be read a second time.
 MR. SPEAKER said, he considered that it was.
 MR. CARDWELL said, it was desirable that the Committee should not lose the opportunity of extending the benefits of education by every means in its power. The objections to the present Bill did not proceed from those who had availed themselves of the opportunities afforded by the previous measure. In the town of Oxford a public library had been established for nine months with the best results, having been attended by 90,000 persons, without a single complaint of impropriety or indecorum. Upwards of 3,000 volumes had been presented to the library. A greater moral benefit to the community, or one more popular to those who paid the taxes, it was impossible to conceive. By this Bill the town council or other bodies could assemble, and if two-thirds of the rate-payers did not approve the Bill it would not be called into operation. If they approved the Bill the community would, by levying a moderate rate, not exceeding a penny in the pound, provide the means of educating themselves, of assembling every evening for innocent recreation, and of availing themselves of those educational
 210
 MR. CRAUFURD , in reply, said, he was prepared to stand by the Bill in the shape in which it stood, subject to such emendations as might be made upon it by the better judgment of the House. He trusted that the course of proposing to shelve the Bill by referring it to a Select Committee would not be pursued, and that the House would consent to the second reading. divided: added. agreed to. put off
 MR. WARNER said, he must beg to express his approval of the Bill. He observed that as every system of popular education which had been introduced into Parliament failed, they should not, when they found 5,000 people willing to educate themselves, prohibit them from doing so.
 MR. FRENCH said, he must complain
 225
 MR. HADFIELD said, he begged to move the omission from the clause of the words "with the approval of Her Majesty's Treasury." He did not wish to give to the Treasury the proposed right of interference in that matter.
 MR. MACARTNEY said, he could not let the Bill be read a second time, without expressing his disapproval of hasty legislation of this kind by individuals. He thought that a measure of this kind should be introduced by the Government, and he would therefore move that the Bill should be read a second time that day six months. 222
 MR. BAILLIE said, it might be that such a measure would be practicable with reference to England and Ireland, but it could hardly be so as to England or Ireland and Scotland, for the law of England and Ireland was substantially the same, whereas the law of England was essentially different from that of Scotland, and the carrying out of such a measure would really require an assimilation of the laws of the two countries.
 MR. I. BUTT said, the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Dunlop) was mistaken in supposing that a judgment obtained in England could not be enforced in Ireland, or  vice versâ, primâ facie Aula Regis, 226
 MR. HEYWOOD said, he did not see any objection to a reasonable supply of good newspapers. Whether the word were inserted or not, he believed the libraries would be sure to have newspapers, as many people would take an opportunity of sending them when they contained any matter supporting their particular views.
 MR. WHITESIDE said, it also showed the impossibility of proceeding with a Bill of this kind without the aid of the Law Officers of the Crown.
 MR. WHITESIDE said, if the Government recognised the principle of the measure, it was their duty to introduce a measure that would be practicable. Great evils arose from crude legislation, even with the best intentions. The Incumbered Estates Court of Ireland Act had been passed, no doubt, with the best possible intentions; but the Court was worse than the Court of Chancery it had been intended to supersede. On the other hand, it was most bitterly to be complained of that a Government should allow useful and valuable measures—such, for instance, as the Landlord and Tenant Bill and Leasing Powers Bill of a previous Session—to drop, merely for want of any attention to them. It did not appear to him that the present Bill belonged to the former but to the latter class. There was no practical inconvenience in the law upon the subject; a judgment even in an inferior or foreign court was by the law of England and Ireland  primâ facie
 MR. WHITESIDE said, that the hon. member for Dumfries had always asserted that the main object of the Bill was not the establishment of newspaper reading-rooms, and, although he (Mr. Whiteside) agreed in the opinion that some of the best things a man could read were to be found in the newspapers, he would remind the Committee that some of the very worst things, the most poisonous matter for contaminating the mind, had been disseminated through the same channel. The first-class newspapers of the metropolis undoubtedly contained a vast mass of the most useful information, but the Government were about to introduce a measure which might lead to the establishment of newspapers of quite a different stamp and quality, and he thought he was justified in expressing a doubt whether the real mental food would not be that furnished by the newspapers, to the exclusion of good food in well-selected books. He should vote against the Motion.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that as he believed this Bill would apply to Ireland, he should not object to it, subject to the limitations which had been suggested.
 MR. WILSON said, that the Motion now before the House had reference to the Exchequer bills at present floating, and the customary Bill for renewing those bills was that to which the assent of the House was now required. As the law now stood, it was impossible, without an Act of Parliament, to convert unfunded into funded debt, and he had therefore no difficulty in giving the hon. Baronet the assurance he required.
 MR. WILSON said, he apprehended the Committee was unaware of the importance of a clause of this kind. Supposing the town council to pass a vote for the purchase of land or for the payment of rent, and the law required the assent of the Treasury to give validity to that vote, the course taken would be for the Treasury, on any objection being taken to the vote, to return it to the town council for reconsideration. It might happen that in the meanwhile a new town council would have to be elected; this would afford an opportunity to the whole of the ratepayers at the election to express their opinion upon the subject. He thought this observation applied with as much force to the case of rent as to that of purchase.
 MR. BROTHERTON said, Clause 15 provided that two neighbouring townships, of less than 5,000 inhabitants each, might unite, if they pleased, for the purposes of this Bill.
 MR. BROTHERTON said, he could state that these libraries in Salford and the surrounding boroughs were most popular. The working people were the most earnest in encouraging them, and regarded them as a boon. They were not so much libraries for the rich as the poor, and those who were the most taxed for the support of these public institutions were most favourable to them.
 MR. HENLEY said, he had no doubt that public libraries had been productive of unmixed good. There were libraries of some description in almost every parish. But whilst endeavouring to carry out the advantages of such a system, care ought to be taken that the occupier of 150 acres of land, on which there was only one house, should not be rated at something like 400 l. l., l. l.
 MR. HENLEY said, he would suggest that there were clauses in some of the Town Improvement Acts and the old Watching and Lighting Acts, from which example might be taken in making a distinction between land and houses, and there would be no difficulty in drawing up such a clause. As for the principle of this measure, he was favourable to it.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he observed that there were several inequalities in the Bill, but if the taxation could be made uniform, he should not object to the application of the Bill to parishes with populations amounting to 10,000. There were three classes of persons on whom the Bill would operate—those in parishes, those in places under the Towns Improvement Act, and those in municipal boroughs. Now those persons who held land under the Towns Improvement Act were rated in different proportion from those who held houses, and the Bill would in that respect operate unequally. The occupiers of land would have to pay a different amount of rate from that paid by the occupiers of houses, whilst the latter would enjoy greater advantages than the former in consequence of their facility of access to the libraries.
 MR. HENLEY said, he hoped the hon. Member for Dumfries would, on the Report being brought up, have no objection to a clause limiting the period wherein an unsuccessful application for the establishment of a library under this Act might be renewed, in order to prevent the continual agitation and perpetual bickerings upon this question.
 MR. NAPIER said, that in most libraries there was a class of books which it would be most inconvenient to lend out. divided: agreed to.
 MR. NAPIER said, the hon. and learned Gentleman did not seem to be aware that a Bill similar to the present had been referred to a Select Committee last Session, and he had sat upon it, and now it was proposed to go through the same farce again—for farce it must be called—thus to have a Bill brought in Session after Session, to have the principle admitted, the details objected to, and the measure referred again and again to a Select Committee, without any result, the Government all the while attempting thus to usurp the character of law reformers, by approving of the principle of measures for the improvement of the law, the only objection being that they could not be or were not carried out. He did not believe that the principle of the present Bill could be carried out. It was proposed to make a judgment in England operate as a judgment in Ireland or Scotland, so that execution might be sued out upon it at once in all those countries. This was anomalous, and might prove most mischievous, unless means were taken to prevent it, which did not appear to be provided in the present Bill. The cases of practical inconvenience under the present law were rare, and hardly warranted so sweeping a change in the law. The Bill was in several respects repugnant to the late Irish Common Law Procedure Act, and these repeated changes in the law left it in a state of uncertainty, and consequently produced much discontent and dissatisfaction. It should be recollected also, that the law of judgments in Ireland was of
 223
 MR. NAPIER said, the bill as it now stood would apply to Ireland as well as England, and yet there was no one to superintend its passing through the House on the part of Ireland. Such a measure as this ought not to be introduced, except on the responsibility of the Crown. No doubt, the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Baines) was endeavouring to make the best of the Bill, but in the end he (Mr. Napier) could plainly see that, at least as far as regarded Ireland, they would not be able to work it, and that the Bill would go out of the Committee a worse measure than when it was brought into it.
 MR. BUCK  said, that taxation was already very oppressive, and this Bill would impose a monstrous burden not only on the towns, but the landed interest connected with the towns. He would move therefore that, instead of reducing the limit of the population from 10,000 to 5,000 as proposed by the Bill, the limit should remain at 10,000, as at present.
 MR. BUCK said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. BAINES said, he wished to take every practical means of informing the public when these meetings were called. There might be some persons who did not go to churches or chapels, and others who were not in the habit of reading newspapers. As the clause was drawn, notice was to be affixed to the doors of the churches and chapels; and he would move the addition of the words "and also by advertising the same in one or more of the newspapers published or circulated in the borough seven days at least before the day of meeting."
 MR. BAINES said that, in reference to what had fallen from the noble Lord the
 212
 MR. BAINES  said, he was glad to hear the testimony of the hon. Member of Norwich in favour of the importance of institutions of this kind, and it entirely confirmed all that he had heard in the north of England with regard to the results of such institutions. He believed that, in every case, they had been found most beneficial, and his constituents were extremely anxious for the extension of the principle. Whilst from his official position he was naturally jealous of any unjust charge being thrown upon the poor rates, he was anxious to promote any measure which had a direct tendency to diminish the burden of pauperism, and he knew no means more calculated to effect that object than the provision, in large towns, of the means of giving useful knowledge and rational recreation to the working classes. The experience of the working of these institutions in Manchester, Salford, and other large places, was most satisfactory. He was glad to find that the Bill was permissive, for he could not have supported a compulsory measure for the rating of the
 211
 MR. BAINES said, he assuredly could not agree in the last observation of the
 216
 MR. BAINES said, he would undertake to introduce, on a future occasion, an interpretation clause which would meet any such exceptional case as that to which the noble Lord had referred.
 MR. BAINES said, he would adopt the suggestion. agreed to, 214
 MR. BAINES said, that the churchwardens were empowered to call these meetings, and if they were merely dealing with parishes it would be all very well; but the Bill also applied to townships, where there were no churchwardens, and, as the matter was not at all of an ecclesiastical character, he thought it would be a great deal better that the overseers of the poor should be the persons to convene these meetings.
 MR. BAINES said, he thought it was an extremely objectionable practice to introduce exemptions of this kind. The proposed clause might also operate very unjustly. Taking as an instance the city of York, which contained twenty-four parishes, some of them of extremely small extent. If land for a library were taken in one of those small parishes, it would increase the burden cast upon the remaining landowners of that parish, while the benefit of the institution would be common to the whole twenty-four parishes.
 MR. SPOONER said, he thought the only way of remedying the injustice proposed to be committed by the Bill, by taxing persons who could not avail themselves of the benefits of the libraries, would be by making all the institutions lending libraries.
 MR. SPOONER said, he objected to the insertion of the proposed word. It was monstrous that poor people residing out of towns should be taxed to enable the townspeople to enjoy the luxury of reading newspapers. More than that, he doubted whether their introduction would be beneficial to the libraries themselves, as it might have a tendency to convert them into mere newspaper reading-rooms and sedition shops.
 MR. SPOONER said, he would beg to ask Mr. Speaker whether the introduction of the word was consistent with the title of the Bill.
 MR. SPOONER said, he must deny that he said they were sedition shops. He said it would have a tendency to render the libraries liable to be converted into sedition shops. He did not intend his observation to apply to the respectable portion of the newspaper press, but in almost all large provincial towns there existed a class of papers which ought to be prosecuted by the Attorney General. As he said before, he was sure it would end in giving the townspeople the luxury of newspapers at the expense of the labouring classes residing in the country.
 MR. SPOONER : Then I shall divide the Committee on it.
 MR. SPOONER  said, that in Birmingham the people had not acted upon the powers which they already possessed. The Bill would be a hardship to those persons living within the boundaries of boroughs who lived at a distance too great 209
 MR. SPOONER said, he did not doubt that the measure succeeded very well in large towns, where the number of distant occupiers was small, but he protested against the Bill in its present shape, as it would be the means of taxing persons living at a considerable distance for objects in which they could have no interest, and from which they could receive no benefit.
 MR. LOWE said, he did not know what might be the case with regard to Birmingham, but he could give some evidence of a neighbouring borough, which he thought would be satisfactory to the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner). The town of Kidderminster, which he had the honour to represent, comprehended a considerable agricultural district within the limits of the borough. The population were in the deepest distress—such distress as was unknown before to any person now living. Just at the time it was proposed to levy a half-penny rate for the establishment of a free library, cards were issued, calling upon the people not to throw away their money, or to tax themselves at a moment when so many of the inhabitants were without work, He was happy to say that in the depth of their misery the proposition was carried by an enormous majority. Only about twenty persons voted against it, and those persons (he said it with every respect) were persons whose calling in life pointed to the supposition that they thought there was a better way of spending an evening than in reading rooms and libraries.
 MR. T. PARKER hoped the hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr. Ewart) would persist in his Motion.
 MR. BARROW said, he was of opinion that no answer had been given to the objections which had been raised. Political knowledge was contained in essays and magazines as well as in newspapers, and he was apprehensive their introduction into the proposed libraries would be a fruitful source of political dissension and disunion. 220 divided: inserted.
 MR. EWART said, he did not see why newspapers could not be read by persons living in the districts as well as in the
 219
 MR. EWART moved the addition of the following Clause:—"No person shall be assessed or rated to any county, borough, parochial, or other local rates or cesses in respect of any land, houses, or buildings, or parts thereof respectively, belonging to any library or museum established under this Act, and occupied by it for the transaction of its business, and for carrying into effect its purposes."
 MR. EWART said, he would not press his Motion.
 MR. EWART said, if a clause were proposed providing that no new application should be made within a period of twelve months from a previous application, he should not object to it.
 MR. EWART said, he thought that newspapers were the natural index of the public mind, and containing, as they did, information upon every topic concerning the country, they were sought after with great avidity. It would be impossible to exclude them altogether, and, if it were not, he doubted the policy of such a proceeding; for he believed that persons who read them were very often induced to seek for further information on particular subjects in books; he, therefore, thought it highly important to introduce a good class of newspapears into libraries.
 MR. EWART said, he had no objection to confine the measure to England.
 MR. EWART said, it should be made subject to the approval of the Lords of the Treasury.
 MR. EWART said, he would consent to insert such a limitation, which, might be done by altering the 23rd clause. agreed to;
 MR. EWART said, he wished to move to insert in the clause the word "newspaper" after "books."
 MR. EWART said, that on a former occasion, he did himself propose to extend this measure to towns of 4,000 inhabitants, but he found that it occasioned some difficulties, and he was obliged to alter it. Having adopted the limit of 5,000 as a sort of compromise, he should not be justified now in altering it.
 MR. EWART said, he intended that each ratepayer should have only one vote. agreed to. struck out. agreed to.
 MR. EWART said, that his idea always had been that there ought to be separate Bills for England and Ireland, and he had only been induced to extend the Bill to Ireland at the suggestion of some hon. gentlemen, who wished to see a law of the kind in operation in that country.
 MR. EWART said, that the words in question had been copied from a similar provision in the Model Lodging-Houses Act, and in other measures. He was no friend to centralisation, but he did not wish to depart in that instance from the beaten path. divided:
 MR. EWART said, he must admit that the words did give very extensive powers, and that only showed the importance of requiring the approval of the Treasury in those cases.
 MR. EWART said, that if any clause could be framed to meet the difficulty suggested by the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley), and draw a more distinct line for taxation, he should be happy to adopt it. It was impossible, however, to provide in legislation for every exceptional case, and there could be no good without some mixture of inconvenience.
 MR. EWART said, he apprehended there would be no difficulty in establishing
 213
 MR. EWART  said, that this was only a permissive Bill, and he knew many places containing not more than 5,000 inhabitants where this Bill would be regarded as a great boon. He saw no reason to deny to small agricultural towns the privileges of enlightenment which the House of Commons had already given to larger places.
 MR. MICHELL  said, he could not agree with the bon. Member for North Devonshire (Mr. Buck), that this Bill would be a hardship upon small agricultural towns, for he considered that they were the places which most wanted public libraries. There were towns in Cornwall, the inhabitants of which had requested him to move that the limit of population should be 4,000 instead of 5,000, so that they might establish libraries under this Bill. He thought it would be much better to place no restriction upon the amount of population of places which might wish to avail themselves of this Bill.
 MR. MICHELL said, he hoped the hon. Member for Dumfries would consider the claims of smaller towns. If this measure would be beneficial to 10,000 people, he did not see why 4,000 should not have the benefit of it. It would be very acceptable to Bodmin and Launceston, which had corporate funds larger than they required for corporate purposes.
 MR. WATSON said, he thought there might easily be a clause distinguishing the rural part of these districts from the town part; for he quite agreed that it would be unfair to tax them equally. He could bear testimony to the popularity of these institutions in the north of England, and would appeal also to the gentlemen connected with the agricultural districts to give their poor hardworking people the same opportunities of mental recreation in the evenings.
 MR. WILKINSON said, the question of the admission of the particular newspapers might very well be left to the managers of the libraries.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL said, he thought the best plan would be to adopt the suggestion of the noble Lord opposite and strike out so much of the clause as related to the appropriation of parochial lands. Perhaps the noble Lord would allow the clause to pass, on the understanding that the words should be struck out on bringing up the Report.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL said, he thought the best proof that the proposed libraries would be lending libraries was to be found in the fact that the words in the clause were precisely the same as in the existing Act, the libraries established under which had all become lending libraries.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY said,
 229 passed.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY said, he wished to know whether the House had any assurance that none of these Exchequer bills in the course of the year would be converted into funded debt. He mentioned this, because in 1853 a portion of the Exchequer bill debt was turned from unfunded into funded debt, to the extent of about 1,500,000 l.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY said, he believed that nothing would be more likely to induce persons to go to the libraries
 218
 MR. PALK said, he rose to call the attention of the Government to the state of the cavalry in the East, and also to the nature of the reinforcements about to be sent there. In his opinion, no calamity had
 227 esprit de corps. 228 agreed to.
 SIR SAMUEL BIGNOLD said, that in the city of Norwich, where there was a considerable agricultural population, that class concurred with the inhabitants generally in a desire to have a free library established.
 MR. CHILD said, he did not think seven days' notice sufficient, and would beg to propose ten days.
 SIR ERSKINE PERRY said, that, as for the out-voters of a township or borough not having the same use of the library, as those who lived in the town, it was the fact that most of the public libraries so established were lending libraries, from which they could obtain books and take them home; and he suggested that a provision for nicking these lending libraries should be embodied in the Bill. The public libraries on the Continent were, he believed, without exception, lending libraries. In London, the British Museum and the London Institution, and many other boasted libraries, were nearly useless to the scholar, because he had to go three or four miles to read the books.
 SIR ERSKINE PERRY said, he wished to propose as an Amendment: "That all the Libraries to be established under this Act shall be Lending Libraries." He was strongly of opinion that the usefulness of the libraries would be greatly curtailed if they did not possess this quality.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE said, that the Bill might be made applicable to Ireland so far as concerned the town councils, but when they came to deal with parishes, then the Bill must fail, because in Ireland the parochial system was not the same as in England. The parishes in Ireland were not the area of taxation. The Bill proposed to employ overseers, vestries, and churchwardens; but no gentleman who knew anything about Ireland would say that by such machinery the Bill would work well in that country. He would therefore strongly recommend his hon. Friend to confine the Bill solely to England.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON said, he had voted in favour of requiring the sanction of the Treasury with regard to the purchase of land by the council and commissioners, because it did not seem to him right that the representatives of the present parishioners should alone have the power of imposing a permanent charge upon future parishioners; but in the case of the pay-
 215
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON said, that in some districts in Ireland there were no overseers of the poor, although it was proposed that the Bill should be extended to that country.
 MR. HUTCHINGS  said, he had not hesitated to tell the shareholders at the last meeting what he thought of their conduct. The directors asked the shareholders what course they should take. The only response was a resolution disrespectful to the House, and to prevent its being passed they agreed to have the question referred back to the board; but no one could doubt that if the board had recommended the shareholders to fulfil the pledge it would have been almost unanimously rejected.
 SIR, GEORGE GREY  said, that having opposed the Bill of last Session, he felt bound to offer his opposition to the present Motion. The object of the hon. Baronet appeared to be to obtain an inquiry into this subject, in order to ascertain whether any legislation upon it was necessary; and, if necessary, what that legislation should be. Now, he (Sir George Grey) thought the House were not in possession of sufficient information upon the matter to enable them to accede to the Motion of the hon. Baronet, and it would, therefore, be better to institute an inquiry first. At the same time, he doubted whether the principle involved in the question was one which the House ought to affirm or not. He gave the hon. Baronet credit for the most benevolent intentions in the course which he had pursued, but he must repeat what he had stated upon a former occasion, that he believed it would be altogether impracticable to attain the object attempted to be carried out by this Bill. The remedy proposed by the hon. Baronet for the grievance of which he complained was a remedy for a grievance which was altogether illusory, and the House ought not to encourage what they knew to be a delusion. He (Sir George Grey) under-
 253
 SIR THOMAS HERBERT : in seconding the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Wallingford, and as a personal friend of Sir Charles Napier, and one is he has served under him on many trying occasions, I must beg to trouble the House with a few words on the question now before them. The hon. and gallant Admiral the Member for Gloucester told the House, a few evenings ago, that Sir Charles Napier was not dismissed from his command. Technically speaking, he certainly was not; but he was removed from his command by ordering him to haul down his flag, and, to my mind, in a most discourteous manner, unaccompanied as the order was by a single complimentary expression in commendation of the gallant Admiral's management of the fleet while under his orders. Although I cannot approve of after-dinner speeches like the gallant Admiral's at the Mansion House, yet, after all, Sir Charles Napier's eminent services—many of them most brilliant, and such as to have called forth the admiration of such men as Lord Exmouth, Sir Alexander Cochrane, Sir Robert Stopford, Sir James Gordon, and other distinguished officers—I have too much respect for my gallant friend, who was once my commander during some trying occurrences, not to hope that his statement will prove to be correct, and that he will stand well with his countrymen. With regard to the gallant Admiral's conduct in the Baltic, I do not
 286
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, he could not conceal from the House the regret
 307 308 "Your petitioner has been informed that there were two candidates for the command, with scats in the Admiralty. One was refused; the other got it. Surely they could not be impartial judges of the conduct of your petitioner." 309
 MR. W. COWPER  said, he rose to make an observation on what had just been stated by the hon. and learned Member for Enniskillen, with reference to the refusal to produce the letters dated after the 20th of December. He believed it would be highly imprudent to produce the letters written subsequently to the 20th December, because in those letters Sir Charles Napier had reproduced the facts and opinions he had stated in his former correspondence; and the publication of those facts and opinions could not take place without detriment to the public service, at a period when we were preparing another expedition to the Baltic. He therefore trusted that the House would not insist on the production of those papers. He certainly had never been more surprised
 312 313
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he entirely dissented from the observation of the hon. Member for Hertford (Mr. Cowper), that the question brought under their consideration was, whether or not Sir Charles Napier had been sufficiently praised by the Board of Admiralty. He (Mr. Bentinck) should say that the Motion involved a subject of much greater interest and importance than that. In the present state of the discussion, however, and in the ab-
 314
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the case, as presented to the House, appeared to him to lie in a very narrow compass. The hon. and learned Member for Wallingford (Mr. Malins) grounded it upon the fact that Sir Charles Napier had been dismissed and censured, and he said it was due, as a matter of justice to the character of that distinguished officer, that the correspondence which had taken place since a certain period should be laid before the House. The foundation of the case was Sir Charles Napier's having been dismissed or censured, or both. Now, as he (the Attorney General) understood the facts—and, not having seen the statement of the gallant Admiral, he had had no means of becoming acquainted with them except from the discussion that evening—Sir Charles Napier, upon his return to this country, instead of being continued in his command, received from the Admiralty an order to haul down his flag. That was called by the gallant Admiral and his friends a dismissal; and further it was said that the letter implied a censure upon
 315 316
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : Sir, before troubling the House with the few remarks which I have to make on this subject, I beg to assure them that I have not read anything connected with the matter. It is true that this afternoon Admiral Sir Charles Napier brought me a paper stating that it contained his case as it was to be brought before the House. I took it from his hands without reply; but, in walking down to the House, I formed an opinion that I ought not to read it, and I have not done so. Some few days ago, also, Admiral Napier came to me stating that his case was to be brought before the House, and hoping that I would give that assistance to a brother officer which his case might seem to me to deserve. I told him that I did not wish to enter then into any discussion on the subject, but that I would be in my place when it came forward, and if any opportunity offered of vindicating the character of a brother officer I was the man to do it. I must say that I very much regret that Sir Charles Napier should have allowed himself so far to be led away as to enter into a vindication of Ins conduct at a civic banquet, more especially as he had then demanded a court-martial from the Admiralty, and had the expectation of being able to submit his conduct to the judgment of a tribunal composed of members of his own profession. Moreover, with his experience of this House, he ought to have known that if he had a clear and fair case, this body of Englishmen representing the country, would never have failed to give a man of his station and responsibility that fair and patient hearing and that unbiassed verdict which his case should entitle him to. If these papers are produced I shall go into them with the most sincere desire to see the fullest justice clone to all parties. Now, Sir, there can he no doubt that there does exist in this country a very strong feeling that our success in the Baltic has not been equal to the just ex-
 295 296 297 [Cheers.]
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, it was not denied that abuses existed in this trade. The existence of these abuses was admitted fully by those most disposed to refuse all legislative attempt to remedy them. The legislation proposed by the Bill which it was sought to introduce was directed against the truck system, in an aggravated form, which had existed in the hosiery districts for many years, and been productive of very painful results to the operatives. The hon. Baronet who brought the subject forward had studied it for years, and all he asked was that he should be permitted to bring in the Bill—a permission granted last Session in a full House—for the purpose of having it considered in committee upstairs. It would be most inconsistent to refuse permission to introduce this Bill, for the Committee, part of whose duty it was to consider this Bill last Session, was so occupied by other business, that it never reached the subject of this Bill, and consequently had never performed the task assigned to it by the House. He hoped the House would not revoke a decision to which it had come last year. From his (Mr. Newdegate's) knowledge of the locality in which this truck system prevailed, he was prepared to assert that the grievances complained of had an existence, and could be dealt with without injury to the
 261
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he wished to correct a mis-statement into which he found he had been misled on a former evening. He had said that the wrenches at present in use in the army for drawing balls from Minié rifles were ineffective, and that Mr. Westley Richards had some months ago made a statement to that effect to the authorities at the Ordnance Office, and had at the same time submitted to them a pattern for all effective wrench, but that advice and that pattern had been rejected. He had since found that that statement was not altogether correct, for Mr. Westley Richards had since called upon him, and had told him that he (Mr. Richards) had warned the Ordnance authorities upon the matter, not some months ago, but in the month of January; that after that warning Sir Thomas Hastings had communicated with the inspector of small arms at Birmingham, who had replied that the wrenches at present in use were perfectly effectual, and Mr. Westley Richards, not satisfied with that reply, had since laid before the Ordnance officers a pattern of what he believed was all effective wrench. Those were the correct facts of the case, and he (Mr. Newdegate) wished to state that he had before been misled as to the time when Mr. Westley Richards had first warned the officers of the Ordnance that the wrenches in use by the army were ineffective, and as to the fact of Mr. Westley Richards not having, until subsequently, tendered the pattern of an effective wrench. He (Mr. Newdegate) had been mistaken as to the time of these occurrences; he thanked the House for having permitted him to correct this statement, for he should regret to do an injustice by leaving this mis-statement of dates uncorrected.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  denied that he had ever assigned the period of these occurrences as ten months ago.
 MR. PACKE  said, he was somewhat surprised and exceedingly sorry to hear that the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary, on the part of the Government, was prepared to resist the introduction of this Bill. The right hon. Baronet had declared it was a measure "altogether illusory," but that was surely begging the whole question, for the Committee which had been appointed last Session to consider that question had not been able to arrive at it, and it was scarcely to be affirmed that the measure was illusory before its character had been really inquired into. If the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Craufurd) had been in earnest as to the desire for an inquiry, he would have proposed the reappointment of the Committee before the reintroduction of the Bill, which, however, it should be observed, affected only the hosiery trade. It appeared that a particular class of the community were suffering grievous wrong—it was a maxim of the constitution that wherever there Was a wrong there was a remedy—and it was to be ex-
 254 s. l. sine die.
 Ma. PACKE  said, that the hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr. E wart) was himself an illustration of the good effects of a public school education.. The most distinguished ornaments of either House of Parliament, and the principal Members of nearly every Government, had, with few exceptions, been educated at public schools, and that fact alone was, in his opinion, the best answer which could be given to the Motion before the House. With regard to modern languages, it was true that some years ago little or no attention was paid to them, but at the present day the study of them was encouraged, and at Eton a prize established by His Royal Highness Prince Albert was given annually for proficiency in French and German.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : I consider it is necessary, Sir, for me to state, and I shall do so as shortly as possible, the course which the Government think it right to adopt with reference to the question now
 298 299
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he had stated that as the papers discussed the plan for taking Sweaborg it would be injurious to the public service to have such details produced to the House.
 MR. MIALL  said, that he did not know what the noble Lord at the head of the Government meant by the term of "sufficient liberality," but it was probable that what might be sufficient for him and for the Government would not be sufficient for that House and the country. The party with whom the noble Lord was connected had never been very liberal towards Dis-
 249
 MR. BANKES,  after presenting a petition against the Bill, said that both the House and the public had been insultingly treated by the company. The line, respecting which the pledge had been given, had received the sanction of the First Lord of the Admiralty, the Commander in Chief, and all parties interested in the defence of the kingdom, and it was a matter of great regret that it had not been constructed,
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he hoped the House would allow an officer who was engaged in the last war to say a few words. The reputation of a gallant officer was at stake; and he could wish that his reputation had stood as high at the end of the Baltic campaign as it did at its commencement. Sir Charles Napier left this country under every disadvantage. There had been a naval review, a sham fight, and a reform dinner, at which he was lauded with all the praise that could be applied to a gallant officer; and after these he was sent forth with the expectation of the country that he would do more than it was in fact possible for him or in fact any one else to do. That many of the ships were badly manned, the right hon. Baronet the late First Lord of the Admiralty had not attempted to deny. With respect to the possibility of his performing what was expected of him, it seemed that two engineer officers attached to the expedition differed. Had they coincided in opinion, it would have been almost impossible to stand against them; but one had one plan, and the other another, and the Admirals disapproved of both. Though he scarcely knew Sir Charles Napier personally, he must say that his ears had tingled at certain expressions in some of the papers which they had heard read that night. He could not avoid saying, that he thought there had been something of harshness towards the gallant Admiral. If he was to be removed from his command, the thing should have been done with more consideration and courtesy: that would have been more creditable at all events to those who dismissed him. He gathered from what he had heard, that Sir Charles Napier had a plan of his own, which he was willing to carry out; but the Lords of the Admiralty, sitting in their arm-chairs, thought they knew best how to deal out destruction to the enemy, and sent him their plan; and if Sir Charles Napier considered that plan dangerous, he was perfectly justified—he would not say in remonstrating in improper terms—but in taking upon himself the responsibility of not carrying it out. What was the great evil at Balaklava? That no one was properly responsible. They would have had another Balaklava had the fleet attempted to force its way into the Russian
 300
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he consi-
 237
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, he would now beg to. move, in accordance with the notice he had given for a Select Committee, to inquire into the best means of affording to the nation a full and equal participation in all the advantages, which are not necessarily of an ecclesiastical or spiritual character, in the public schools and Universities of England and Ireland. Five years ago Royal Commissions were issued to inquire into the condition of the Universities; but it was made a special condition that they were not to go into the question of the admission of dissenters to those seats of learning. That question was, therefore, little attended to by the Commissioners, and when the Bill for the Reform of the University of Oxford was brought in last year, it contained no provision for the admission of Dissenters to the benefits of the University, and when the House passed a clause allowing their admission to the University, no provision was made for their due and proper admission into colleges, but they were only allowed to establish halls for themselves. Now, Dissenters did not intend to establish separate halls, and they would not be satisfied until they were admitted to the privileges of the University on the same footing as members of the Church of England. In wording his notice of Motion be had used the precise words of Sir Robert Peel, when he discussed this question in 1834. There was then a debate on the subject of opening the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge to Dissenters, so far as allowing them to take lay degrees; and Sir Robert Peel said that it was more rational to grant to the dissenters a full and equal participation in all the advantages of the Universities, which were not necessarily of an ecclesiastical or spiritual character. In 1818, Lord Brougham, then a Member of the House of Commons, moved for a Select Committee to inquire into the education of the lower orders; and as the great public schools of Eton or Winchester had been originally intended as charities for the poor, he extended his inquiry into those schools, and had their statutes published. The publication of the evidence then given had been of great advantage to the boys, who had been made
 240 241 242
 MR. HEYWOOD,  in reply, said, that he did not see any likelihood of the objects that he sought being accomplished by any measure that had yet been passed, or that was yet announced to be brought forward. Certainly, the proposition which had been made by the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston), that he (Mr. Heywood) should bring in a Bill to amend the Act of Uniformity, and to provide some service in the college chapels instead of the present full service of the Church of England, was one which
 250
 MR. WHITESIDE : That statement convinced him that the right hon. Gentleman had not read the terms of the Motion, because the terms of the Motion excluded those dates which embraced the plans for the reduction of Sweaborg. The right hon. Gentleman had been so suddenly and so lately transferred from the Board of Control to the Admiralty that he was unaware of the fact that the papers asked for excluded those containing the plans and operations to which he had referred, and that therefore their production could not possibly be injurious to the public interest. The papers moved for by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Wallingford were not to be granted because the Minister told them it would be an inconvenience. In the war in which they were engaged they expected to gain victories and to achieve triumphs, but they could hardly expect to find men who had a high sense of honour engage in the service of their country with a chivalrous and devoted spirit if they persisted in denying them, when insulted and injured, that justice to which they were entitled.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that there was no act of injustice, of oppression, or of iniquity that could be perpetrated upon any officer in Her Majesty's service that might not be defended by the arguments which had been used by the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir J. Graham). The hon. and gallant Member who last addressed the House said, in effect, that he could not refer to the papers, and, therefore, he would not go into the question, that it was impossible to understand the matter fully without looking into the papers, that he never would look into them, and that by no possibility should the House be able to understand the truth of the case. What then was Sir Charles Napier to do? He felt insulted and aggrieved; he submitted his case to that House, and why? The gallant Admiral (Sir Charles Napier) informed him that, touched to the quick by the unjust treatment he had received from the Admiralty, he sought for inquiry, but inquiry was refused. He then applied formally for a court-martial, but that was likewise denied him. He then sought for an interview with the Prime Minister, and asked for redress. The noble Lord said some complimentary things which meant nothing, but redress was still withheld. What, then, was the gallant Admiral to do? He could only submit his case to that
 310 311
 MR. MURROUGH  said, that the question was, whether the British public would submit to have the character of an officer who had long served his country and had long been a favourite with the country stamped with disgrace by a Ministry without due consideration? The hon. Gentleman who last spoke denied that there had been a want of pilots or of charts with the Baltic fleet; but he forgot to tell the House that the pilots sent out were utterly unacquainted with the navigation of the Baltic, and that they were sent home again because they were perfectly useless. Then, again, with regard to the charts, they were so faulty that the officers were obliged to use other charts, purchased at their own expense. The case of Admiral Saumarez had been alluded to, but it should be recollected that his recall was only temporary. The country, however, knew very well what was meant by the recall of Sir Charles Napier; the country felt satisfied that it was a matter of great convenience to the Admiralty to remove Admiral Dundas from one situation and place him in another, and that there was no other mode of effecting that object but by getting rid of Sir Charles Napier. It was unjust to sacrifice in this way an old servant of the country, and the least the House could do was to grant the papers moved for.
 MR. GARDNER  said, he considered that if it was not the intention of the promoters of this Bill to raise wages by Act of Parliament, any agitation on such a subject could only have the effect of bringing that House into contempt and odium with the people, by leading them to suppose that the House had the power but not the will to afford them relief. His hon. Friend (Mr. Booker) had said that the investigation before the Committee had not altered his views on this subject. He (Mr. Gardner) had been a Member of that Committee, and he must say their inquiries had produced an effect upon his mind. After hearing the evidence given before the Committee, any doubts he had entertained with respect to the truck system were completely removed, and if the truck question was brought forward again he would oppose any imprudent and injudicious legislation upon such a system.
 MR. MALINS  said, the Motion of which he had given notice was one of very great importance, and consequently he felt considerable hesitation in being the organ of bringing it before the House. But, involving as it did considerations of importance to the public service, the honour of public servants, and the discretion of the Government, he did not feel himself at liberty to decline the request that had been made to him to bring the matter before the House. He trusted, therefore, that he should receive the kind indulgence of the House while he made a statement of facts as the foundation for the Motion he should have the honour to make. The House was well aware of the circumstances under which Sir Charles Napier was appointed to command the fleet in the Baltic rather more than a year ago. It was in the month of February, 1854, that the Government, having determined to equip and send out to the Baltic the finest fleet, as universally admitted, that had ever left the shores of Great Britain, proceeded to execute that task which became an imperative duty upon them, and to exercise the best of their powers of judgment in selecting for the command of that fleet the must distinguished officer that could be found in the  Navy List. 262 "As bearing upon that point (that is, upon the fitness of Sir Charles Napier), I cannot refrain from repeating an observation made to me by a very discriminating and calculating friend of mine, who passed some portion of his time in the East at the period to which I have adverted, who saw a good deal of my gallant friend there, and who, when he came home, came to me to give me some account of what he had observed there. I mentioned my gallant friend to him, and praised his boldness, his intrepidity, his daring. My friend said, 'Yes, all that is very true; but there is another quality Sir Charles Napier possesses as valuable as any of those, and a most important ingredient in them. I never saw a man in my life who calculated so many moves beforehand as Sir Charles Napier.' Now, when a man calculates his
 263 "I shall not pretend to weigh the precise ingredients of valour my gallant friend was distinguished for, his remarkable daring and bravery; but even then, in that early part of his career, he verified the praise of the noble Lord. He looked several moves before him, and, in my judgment, he is not only a gallant, but I look upon him as a most discreet commander. He possesses my entire confidence, and I rejoice in having had the opportunity on this great occasion to commend him to the choice of my Sovereign. The selection, I believe, is approved by the country—it is approved by the profession; and although the propelling power of the fleets may be changed, though naval tactics may be altered, as he goes forth the commander, not of a pressed body of men, but of volunteers in Her Majesty's service—though all these old plans may be changed, yet there is one thing that is unchanged, the gallantry and the power of command of my gallant friend. He does not go forth under the hypocritical pretence of conducting a religious war, but he goes forth to assert the independence of Europe—to resist, and I hope successfully to resist, the lawless spirit of aggression and aggrandisement which now threatens to disturb the general peace. My gallant friend says that when he gets into the Baltic he will declare war. I, as First Lord of the Admiralty, give him my free consent to do so. I hope that war will be short. It may be sharp, but I trust, with the spirit and energy that have ever guided my gallant friend, it will be decisive, and although politics are excluded generally from the naval profession, yet we, as Reformers, may be proud that the honour of the British flag in the Euxine and the Baltic is intrusted to two such champions as Admiral Dundas and Sir Charles Napier. They will prove true to their country in the last extremity, and I sincerely hope the time may not be far distant when you, perhaps, will kindly invite me again to celebrate the return of my gallant friend. This evening is an evening of happy augury. When we next meet I hope it will be to celebrate a brilliant success." 264 265 266 in extenso "I am entirely satisfied with your proceedings. Neither Lord Clarendon nor I anticipated your movement inside the Belt, and believed that you would watch in the Cattegat the entrance of the Sound and of the Belts until you received orders to enter the Baltic. You judged, however, wisely, and the time which you have gained has been very precious, and the passage of the Belt in fine weather and in safety has been a most successful exploit. You will also have been enabled to exercise your officers and men to great advantage, with the certainty that the enemy is in front of you, blocked up in ice for some time to come, and that your reinforcements will arrive, and that your discipline will be improved. When the state of the ice permits, I conclude that you will establish a close blockade of the Gulf of Finland, dividing the enemy's squadron at Cronstadt, and at Sweaborg, and intercepting the trade of Revel and Riga. I rely on your prudence in not knocking your head against stone walls prematurely, or without the certainty of a great success, or the fair prospect of attaining some most important object worthy of the risk and of the loss, which when you attack fortresses with ships are serious and inevitable." "I have received your letter of the 19th, off the entrance of the Gulf of Finland. I am glad that you decided not to proceed to Sweaborg. The weather is still broken, the channel is not clear of ice, and your force is not yet concentrated. A safe anchorage within the Gulf of Finland would seem to me your greatest and most pressing necessity. I had hoped that Port Baltic
 267 "If anything can be done you will discover the best means of doing it; but no rash experiments must be tried which do not hold out a reasonable prospect of success. I am anxious to hear your opinion and intentions when you have looked at Sweaborg and entered the Gulf of Finland. I am afraid that the Russians will not pluck up courage and come out to meet you." 268 "I am well pleased with all your operations; and the concentration of your force at the entrance of the Gulf of Finland, in a safe harbour where you can command fresh water, appears to me a judicious operation. I conclude that you will leave a squadron before Helsingfors sufficiently strong to prevent the escape of the Russian squadron skulking within the harbour, and proceed with the rest of the combined fleet to the neighbourhood of Cronstadt, which I am afraid you will find unassailable. If the Russian fleet will not come out to meet you, and if you find that you cannot reach them, after having well reconnoitred the works, and ascertained what it is possible and impossible to do, your return to the more open sea below Helsingfors would appear to be a judicious measure, every necessary precaution being taken to prevent the reunion of the Russian force now divided at Cronstadt and Helsingfors. I am well aware of all the difficulties of your position, and of the impossibility of triumphing over an enemy who will not fight you on fair terms; but you will discipline our fleet, and make our officers and men ready for any service. It is a disgrace to Russia that she dare not show a ship in her own waters, and that she is driven to seek for safety under the shelter of her fortresses. It would be madness to play her game, and to rush headlong on her granite walls, risking our naval superiority, with all the fatal consequences of defeat, in an unequal contest with wood against stone, which in the long run cannot succeed. I had reliance on your prudence, which was doubted. Your brilliant courage was proved long ago. You will now show to the world that you possess a combination of those great virtues which are necessary to make a consummate commander in chief." "I am glad you have gone up to Cronstadt to see with your own eyes what it may be possible to do there. Whatever man can do I am certain will be done by you; and if you are restrained by a sense of duty from embarking in any desperate enterprise, on your return to Baro Sound you shall receive full instructions from me respecting an attack upon the Aland Islands." 269 270 Duke of Wellington, Duke of Wellington Duke of Wellington, 271 272 273 274 275 276 277 278 279 "Now, I really must say that, on the whole, the operations in the Baltic, as they were conducted last year, appear to me to deserve the approbation of the House." "Bomarsund, a most important naval station, fortified strongly, and bearing marks of an intention to carry that system of fortification to a much greater extent, has been destroyed. The great naval arsenal close to the capital of the Emperor of Russia was visited by a force inferior to the force there stationed. Battle was repeatedly offered and as repeatedly declined. Up to last month Sweaborg, with nine sail of the line, was blockaded by an inferior force of frigates only. Never were operations more successful, displaying more gallantry, more discipline, than the operations in the Baltic. In that sea not a ship was lost, a most effective blockade was kept up—a blockade which displayed the energy, skill, and gallantry of English officers and men, and the pressure brought to bear upon the enemy was, I believe, by no means slight."— [3 Hansard, 280 Duke of Wellington, "Sir—The Baltic fleet, on its return to port, being now separated in different harbours of Great Britain, and several of the ships which composed this fleet being under orders for service in the Black Sea and the Mediterranean, you are hereby required and directed to strike your flag and come on shore." "Sir—I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of their Lordships' order, directing me to strike my flag; and with reference to the same, I request their Lordships will inform me whether I am to consider that my command is at an end." 281 "SIR—With reference to your letter of yesterday's date, I am commanded by the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty to acquaint you that the order which you have received, agreeably to custom, to strike your flag and come on shore, is always given at the termination of a flag officer's command." 282 283 284 285
 MR. MALINS,  in reply, said, he would not encroach on the time of the House at any great length. He believed that the noble Lord's (Viscount Palmerston's) declaration, that he thought as highly of Sir Charles Napier now as he ever had done, had taken the House somewhat by surprise, for no one could doubt that the gallant Admiral had now been dismissed from his command, at whatever time the dismissal might have taken place, because another admiral had been appointed to it. As the thanks of the House had been voted to Admiral Dundas, he thought, if the noble Lord were sincere, that he ought to move a vote of thanks to Sir Charles Napier, who had gained a signal victory in the destruction of Bomarsund. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Carlisle (Sir J. Graham) had made it a matter of observation that this question had been brought forward by a lawyer, by an equity lawyer. He (Mr. Malins) had brought the subject forward, not as a professional man, but as one of the representatives of the people. This shot from the Admiralty seemed a favourite one, for the present First Lord had followed it up in somewhat the same strain. Now, as it was his profession to hold briefs in the morning, the right hon. Gentleman seemed to think he could do nothing but hold briefs in the evening. He had brought forward this Motion, because he thought a distinguished officer had been treated in a most unworthy and undignified manner. The hon. and gallant Member fur Gloucester (Admiral Berkeley) said that the more Sir Charles Napier stirred this matter the worse it would be for him; but he thought that the stirring which the matter had already received did not bear out that assertion, and that after the discussion which had taken place that night, Sir Charles Napier would stand before the public in a very different position from that which he had previously occupied. If ever the day arrived when the production of this correspondence would not be detrimental to the public service, he would, if he still had the
 321
 MR. HILDYARD  said, that he had never heard a speech which had filled him with more astonishment than that which had just been delivered. What had the South-Western Company done? A large district which had been struggling for years to obtain the advantages of railway accommodation could have succeeded two years ago by means of the Great Western and the Bristol and Exeter Companies, but for the conduct of the South-Western Company, who pledged themselves to carry into effect a better project, and that pledge was afterwards sanctioned by the unanimous vote of the shareholders. About tea days afterwards a party agitation was
 236 l., l. s. d., s. d.
 MR. BOOKER  said, that no doubt there were cases in which such abuses existed with respect to the relation between capital and labour as to render the interference of the Legislature necessary, and he hoped, therefore, that the House would not act upon the expressed wish of the Government, and prevent the introduction of this Bill, the only object of which was to place the artisans in the hosiery trade on the same footing as workmen in other trades. It had in former years been considered by Parliament that there were cases in which "capital" proved too strong for "labour," and this was one of them. Abuses had arisen which it was necessary to put a stop to, and he trusted the House would not refuse to entertain a measure brought in for that object. He had served upon the Committee which was appointed to consider this subject last year, and he regarded the suggestion that the Bill should be referred to that Committee as a mere attempt to get rid of the measure altogether. He had entered the Committee-room with very strong preconceived opinions in common with one-half of the Committee; the remainder of the Committee entertained equally strong preconceived opinions on the other side; and he believed that the evidence given before them only tended to confirm the original opinions of both parties. The Committee agreed to no Report, but they simply adopted a Resolution recommending the reappointment of a Committee to consider the subject during the ensuing Session. He hoped that, if a Committee were reappointed to consider the Truck Acts, it would be an entirely new Committee, composed of persons who bad not formed any opinion on the subject. It was true that a great deal of evidence was adduced before the Committee of last year to show the advantage which had been derived by the population of England, Scotland, and Wales from the working of the Truck Acts; but, on the other hand, many individuals were brought forward, including shopkeepers and persons engaged in manufactures, who condemned the operation of those Acts. That Committee failed, however, to come to any determination, and he therefore thought it desirable that a new Committee should be appointed to ascertain whether the truck system was or was not beneficial to the working classes.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Graham), in his reply to the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Mr. Malins), made some rather caustic observations relative to this question being brought under the notice of the House by a lawyer. I think, Sir, the experience of the right hon. Gentleman as First Lord of the Admiralty will suggest
 301 primâ facie 302 303 304 305 306
 MR. BARROW  said, he should vote against the introduction of the Bill with a feeling of deep regret that the trade had fallen into such a state that no legislation could mend it. The Bill would cause an interference between masters and workmen, and could do no good. He could not believe that tradesmen who were driven out of the market by machinery would be benefited by it. If this Bill should pass, it would lead to the transfer of machines from the cottages of the workmen to large factories, and he was quite sure that those who were friendly to the workmen did not wish that they should be concentrated in large masses and exposed to the evils of strikes, which might follow from such an arrangement.
 MR. BIGGS  said, that as one deeply interested in the question, he would not oppose the introduction of the Bill, though he did not believe any good would result from such legislation. He considered that the measure of the hon. Baronet would, by a series of vexatious enactments, so complicate the relations of labour and capital in the midland counties, and diminish the profits of manufacturers, as to lead to the withdrawal of capital from the trade, and its application to other objects. The Bill proceeded on the assumption that considerable distress existed among the operatives engaged in the hosiery trade in the midland counties, and that such distress was caused by the cupidity of the manufacturers, who exacted undue rents and made unfair charges upon their work-people. But could they reduce those rents and charges without reducing also the rate of wages? If they could, the House might, perhaps, be justified in interfering on the score of common humanity; but what was the fact? The hosiery business was carried on in the midland counties, where it had been established a century and a half, and employed about 50,000 hands. The custom of charges against which this Bill was levelled had existed since the establishment of the manufacture, and had no influence whatever upon the prevailing distress, which had arisen from a combination of causes, one of the main causes of such distress being the introduction of improved machinery. The trade was in a transition state, and there bad been a great pressure on the whole system. There were now 50,000 frames in the midland counties, 10,000 of them being new and improved frames, by which a woman or a strong boy or girl could produce six stockings in the time it would have taken a man to make one stocking by an old frame. It was impossible for the English manufacturers to compete with the Saxons without making continual improvements in machinery, and exercising their skill in the most judicious manner. The depression of this class of workmen had been going on for the last thirty or forty years, and the great reason of it was the continual growth of improved machinery. Any attempt at legislation on
 259 260
 MR. CHAPLIN,  in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, that the opposition raised to the measure on a former occasion was based on the fact that a pledge formerly given by the shareholders, through the chairman of the company, had not been carried out. That pledge was, that the company would make the line between Yeovil and Exeter, An understanding was come to when the Bill was formerly under discussion, that he should take the opinion of the shareholders on the subject, and he had now to report the result of the meeting which had been held. A general meeting of the shareholders had accordingly been held, at which the directors and shareholders regretted, in the first place, that the pledge had been given; and, secondly, that it was out of their power to fulfil it. He would not attempt to justify
 235 l., l.,
 MR. DEEDES  said, that it was his intention to move, that in referring the Bill to the Committee of Selection, that the Committee be instructed to refer it to the
 238
 MR. EWART,  in seconding the Motion, said he had in view chiefly the improvement of the public schools in this country, which schools were in great need of an altered system. Dissenters ought to be no longer excluded. The time for abolishing all such exclusiveness had arrived, and surely if we had so far departed from the intentions of the founders as not to pray for the repose of the souls of the dead according to the Catholic religion, there could be no argument founded on consistency or principle for not admitting persons of all religious denominations. In supporting the Motion, he did so with a feeling of respect and goodwill towards our public schools, having passed many years in one of them himself. He believed that there was nothing in which greater alteration was required than in the system of our public schools; and to them in particular he would devote a few words, and especially to Eton, his hon. Friend having dealt principally with the Universities. There were two principles which he wished to see adopted-first, that our public schools should be open to persons of all religious
 243
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, he thought his hon. Friend who last spoke had misrepresented the object of this Bill when he had called it a measure for raising wages by Act of Parliament, for it was not a Bill for raising wages, but for enforcing the honest payment of wages. The principle of the Bill seemed to him (Mr. Fox) to be most simple and unobjectionable, and whatever inquiry might be needful could surely only be necessary with regard to matters of detail, and not with respect to the principle of the measure. What an employer undertook to pay the operative he should pay according to contract. When the work upon which the operative was engaged was brought to the employer, whether that work was produced by a machine belonging to the labourer himself, or by a hired machine, or by a borrowed machine, or by a machine obtained in any other way, the business of the employer was to remunerate the employed for the work which he had completed. As to the master's stopping the wages of the operative, in order to provide for the punctual payment of the person whose machine the operative might have hired, it appeared to him that a master had no more right to interfere in such a case than for the payment of the rent of the labourer's cottage, or of the tradesman from whom he obtained provisions. The hire of the machine was a debt, to be treated like all other debts. The House of Commons ought not to expose the labourer to the inconvenience and injury of allowing his master to withdraw, in an arbitrary manner, a portion of his
 258
 MR. MONSELL  said, that after the statement of the hon. Gentleman it was not, he believed, necessary for him to enter into any explanation upon that subject. He would only recall the former allegation of the hon. Gentleman, that the Ordnance department had been made acquainted ten months ago with the fact that the wrenches used in the army were ineffective.
 MR. WILKINSON  said, he thought it would be cruel to hold out to parties in distress that by means, such as this Bill contemplated, their condition could be bettered, or that it was in the power of the House of Commons to remedy such grievances as these men complained of. The measure would be a delusion. The men should be told at once that theirs was a bad trade, and that they had better leave it.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he could not consent to place this question upon the narrow ground taken up by the hon. and learned Attorney General, for there were occasions when not to be praised was tantamount to being censured, where an officer of the navy was exercising high command. The Government had proposed a vote of thanks to Admiral Dundas, for his services in the Black Sea; but, when Sir Charles Napier returned from the Baltic, no notice was taken of the circumstance. The hon. and learned Attorney General had said that the Board of Admiralty had accorded him their thanks, but those thanks were not given voluntarily, but were extracted from them by the letter written by the gallant Admiral. He (Mr. Otway) confessed, when he came down to the House, he laboured under a very different impression with re-
 317 carte blanche
 SIR GEORGE TYLER  said, he thought that Sir Charles Napier had not been fairly treated. At the same time the order to haul down his flag did not strike him (Sir G. Tyler) in the character of a dismissal, because, according to the regulations of the service, in the case of a fleet which had been employed upon a particular service, it was a common occurrence that, when tile service was performed and the fleet returned, the flag was as a matter of course hauled down. He felt as a naval officer—although, like the hon. and gallant Admiral the Member for Christchurch (Admiral Walcott), he was supposed to be too old for service—that if this had occurred to himself he should have considered it a hardship. At the same time he gave to the gallant Admiral every credit for the manner in which he had conducted that magnificent fleet. The gallant Admiral felt it to be impossible to adopt the plan which the Admiralty at home thought it expedient to determine. He, of course, being upon the spot, was the best judge. He (Sir G. Tyler) thought that the despatch after the taking of Bomarsund, in which it was said that the Admiralty approved highly of the gallant Admiral's conduct, but that they could not entirely express their satisfaction that he did not
 318
 SIR HENRY HALFORD  said, he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to restrain stoppages of wages in the hosiery manufacture. He had in the course of the evening presented six petitions against that grievance from the counties of Derby, Leicester, and Nottingham. A Bill upon the same subject was introduced last Session; it was read a second time, and referred to a Select Committee, with the consent of the noble Lord now the Head of the Government, who did not commit himself to the principle of the Bill, but who thought, as great numbers of people were under the impression that they suffered a grievance and an injustice, they were entitled to an inquiry. The inquiry was protracted dvring the Session, but the hosiery manufacture was not even approached by that Committee. He presumed, if he obtained leave to introduce the Bill, that the subject would be referred to a Select Committee, and all he desired was a Committee of unprejudiced men who would take the matter at once under their consideration. The inquiry need not consume any great length of time, for ample materials were before the House in the Report of the Commission appointed ten years ago to inquire into the subject. The petitions that had been presented were signed by between 37,000 and 38,000 persons, a great majority of whom supported the Bill which he now desired to introduce, which was literally the same Bill as the one of last Session. The people complained of their low earnings and extremely depressed condition, occasioned by the extravagant stoppages made from their wages by their employers, and by the middlemen between their employers and themselves. They stated that these stoppages were arbitrary, uncertain, and
 251 252 laissez faire, laissez aller,
 SIR HENRY HALFORD,  in reply, said he could not avoid expressing his surprise at the course that had been taken by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department. His surprise was the greater, because that course was different from the one which had been adopted last year by the noble Viscount now at the head of the Government. He could not reconcile it to his conscience to abandon the measure, and would divide the House upon it.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Sir, I have great pleasure in assuring the House that it will not be necessary for me, in answering the hon. and learned Gentleman, to detain them for anything like the length of time he has occupied in opening his
 287 288 289 290 ex parte, 291 292 293 294
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Sir, I am extremely obliged to the hon. and gallant Gentleman for having called my attention to the expression which he has referred to. If that expression, with reference to the discretion of Sir Charles Napier, can bear the interpretation which my hon. and gallant Friend has put upon it—and naval officers are rightly sensitive upon these points—I most willingly retract the expression, as it was not intended to convey any such imputation. Far from it. It would be an absurdity to raise such an imputation, for the entire life of the gallant Admiral falsifies it.
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, he thought the friends of Sir Charles Napier ought to be satisfied with the result of the night's debate, and that the testimony borne to the merits of the gallant Admiral from all sides of the House, and particularly by the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown,
 320
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  said, he must express his surprise at that which had fallen from the hon. Member for Lambeth. That hon. Gentleman had been pleased to call this Bill a cruel measure, calculated to deceive the workmen, and subversive of all the true principles of trade. It had been acknowledged by almost every speaker that stocking weavers were in a most depressed and disastrous condition; that they had been so for years, and were almost without hope; that their wages were lower than those of the agricultural labourer, and that they were subject to heavy deductions. These men had for years prayed that House to consider if any and what measures could be adopted for their relief. They believed that by a Bill for the payment of wages in full, without deductions, they might have the opportunity of bargaining and reducing those charges which were deemed exorbitant. They had petitioned that House again and again that leave might be granted them to make known and explain their grievances, and to show that the remedies they proposed were just and reasonable,
 255 256
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that no one could deny that the subject to which his hon. Friend had drawn the attention of the House was one of the most interesting kind, and one which ought deeply to engage the attention of every Member of that Assembly. No one could overstate the value of the extension of education, or the expediency and desirableness of abolishing as far as possible all distinctions and differences of religious principle in the promotion of that object. But at the same time he must say, that the Motion of his hon. Friend did not hold out any prospect of any such result being
 244 mutatis mutandis 245 246 247 248
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I confess, Sir, that I have listened to this discussion with much regret, for I think it is setting a bad example that hon. Gentlemen who feel themselves called upon to vindicate the character of professional men in this House should, in doing so, read to us portions of particular documents, while, at the same time, they call upon the House to determine whether those documents shall be produced or not. This is a way of begging the question, and endeavouring to obtain an object by a sidewind, which is not, I think, advisable for this House to pursue. With regard to the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman, the House must agree that there are good and sufficient reasons why it is injurious to the interests of the country that the documents should be produced, and, therefore, I shall undoubtedly give my vote against the proposition. I think the hon. and learned Gentleman has made a mistake in discretion in the course he has pursued with reference to this subject. I also think another hon. and learned Gentleman has also made a mistake, and, led away by the similarity of the names, has mistaken Admiral Dundas who is going to the Baltic, as the same Admiral Dundas who has lately returned from the Black Sea. Perhaps the hon. and learned Gentleman is not aware that, in this country, and in the north especially, there are persons of the same name who are not the same persons, and, in fact, who bear no relation to each other. I have had the pleasure and honour of long acquaintance with the gallant Admiral who is the subject of this discussion, and as an admirer of his professional and personal character, it would have been a matter of sincere regret to me if he had been either cen-
 319
 MR. H. F. BERKELEY said, the noble Lord had only done him justice in supposing that the inquiry which he proposed to institute was entirely on public grounds. He felt that a great and grievous wrong had been done to the British army, that it was necessary an inquiry should take place into that wrong which had caused so wanton a sacrifice of life. He had no wish at all to prejudge the case of the noble Earl, and should be glad to postpone his Motion until some decision was come to. After that time he should consider himself at liberty to proceed with his Motion.
 COLONEL KNOX said, he had assisted with a number of other officers, as well as experienced gunmakers, at the trial of the new weapon at Lord Ranelagh's, to which the hon. Gentleman had just referred; and they had all agreed in considering it a most valuable arm. It was a decided improvement on the Prussian needle gun; it was easily used and easily cleaned; and he had no hesitation in saying that for cavalry it would be the most useful instrument that had ever been invented. He earnestly trusted that the Government would direct their attention to the subject, and give the service the benefit of so valuable a discovery.
 COLONEL DUNNE said, that in reverting to the case of breech-loading guns, all the specimens he had seen had one great drawback, namely, an escape of gas from the breech. At the time he was connected with the Committee on Small Arms, no weapon had been invented which overcame this difficulty. He should like to see this gun of Mr. Sharpe's fired not 500, but 2,000 times, in order to see if by that time the double action was not so shaken as to admit an escape of gas.
 LORD SEYMOUR said, he wished to call the attention of the Committee to the very large amount proposed to be expended in works at home, at a period when such extraordinary exertions were required abroad. Among other items included in this Vote was 30,000 l. l. 353 l. l. l. l.
 MR. ELLICE said, he had seldom heard a more alarming statement than that now submitted to the Committee by the hon. Gentleman the Clerk to the Ordnance. He was the last person in that House to advocate false economy and to grudge the Government the means of conducting the war in the most effectual manner, but he hoped they might consider war an exceptional, and not the normal state of things for which they were to provide in this country. He thought, then, that if a scheme so vast as that they had just heard of were considered necessary, his noble Friend the First Lord of the Treasury ought at least to have explained the general principles upon which the Government were proceeding. If, happily, peace were restored in the course of the present year, in what condition would this country be left with such enormous establishments? For what purpose were these barracks to be erected? He did not quarrel with the sum required for fortifications at Dovor, but it appeared that 60,000 l. l. l. l. 356 l. l., l., l. l. 357
 MR. ELLICE said, he did not differ from the noble Viscount as to the policy of endeavouring to render our military force as effective as possible; the more so as it was so small, and in periods of emergency had to form the nucleus of a large organisation; but what he deprecated was an unnecessary extension of our military establishments. As to barracks—this was the first time he had heard of any deficiency, and he had been under the impression that we had ample accommodation for our troops in that respect. [ Cries of 361
 COLONEL KNOX said, he considered that the Government had taken a wise and proper course with regard to the erection of new barracks at Aldershot. He went down himself the preceding day and saw the whole arrangements, and he thought they were being carried out on a plan which would prove highly beneficial to the country. He, however, concurred in the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Trollope), that the timber, instead of being laid on the bare ground, should be supported by a foundation of brickwork. It might be done at a small expense, and would make it a permanent building. He was surprised that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Coventry (Mr. Ellice) should take objection to this expenditure
 363
 COLONEL LINDSAY said, he wished the Government would inform the Committee when the Portman Street Barracks were to be given up. He should also be glad to hear some statement of the general intentions of the Government with regard to the important subject of barrack accommodation. New barracks, he perceived by the Vote, were to be erected at Dover, at a cost of 60,000 l.; l.; l.; l.; 364 l. l.
 SIR JOHN BULLER said, it was the fault of preceding Governments that such a large expenditure was now required for providing barrack accommodation. In the place where his regiment was stationed there were only a few small barracks for the reception of the men, and the great outlay for barracks was now absolutely necessary. A large sum was expended on the lines at Plymouth, and it must be considered that that money was thrown away. When the lines were condemned by the late Duke of Wellington, it was to be regretted that such an expenditure had taken place. He wished, in conclusion, to draw attention to the absence of warm water, or warm baths, in the military hospital at Devonport. He thought it would be of great assistance to the sick and wounded arriving from the Crimea if some accommodation of that sort could be provided.
 COLONEL NORTH said, he begged, in the first place, to offer his thanks to Government for their efforts to render the army more efficient. He was quite able to confirm the statement which had been made with respect to the condition of the barracks at Plymouth and Devonport. Some five and twenty years ago he was quartered in that part of the country, and he could assure the Committee that at that time they were condemned as being in a most disgraceful state. Well, about three years back he was again there, and he found the barracks in precisely the same condition. The troops could hardly remain within them in consequence of the smoke, while the drains could not do their work in consequence of the insufficient supply of water. Indeed, the condition of things was perfectly intolerable. He hoped the Government would take into its consideration the suggestion of the hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon (General Peel) with regard to the employment at Aldershot of the senior officers of departments at Sandhurst, in order that they might become practically acquainted with their duties. He was quite sure it was a suggestion well worthy of consideration, and he thought, if carried out, it would prove most useful to these officers.
 COLONEL DUNNE said, he believed that our present system of barracking was attributable in a great measure to our system of quartering troops. If a plan were adopted of concentrating the troops the saving to the country would be immense, and he could not, therefore, but regret that the barracks at Aldershot and the Curragh were merely intended for a temporary purpose. With reference to the vote for the additional barracks at Dovor, he wished to observe that he could see no reason why the troops stationed there should not be lodged in the casemate barracks as well as at Malta and Corfu, whereas every one who had been quartered there knew the casemates were not so occupied. He thought, however, that the expenditure would be much more judicious if the money were allotted to erecting permanent barracks at Aldershot, and in addition to that, he believed it was wrong in a military point of view to concentrate a large body of troops at such a place as Dover. As regarded the barracks at Sheffield and Preston, although they are not perfect, still a great deal of money had been expended on them. Indeed, those at Sheffield had cost, as he had been given to understand, as much as 100 l. 374
 LORD SEYMOUR said, he wished to know what was the amount of barrack accommodation for infantry and cavalry already available in the country, and what was the number of troops which would require such accommodation when all the militia were embodied? They would then know what their position really was with regard to barrack accommodation. He thought it was most desirable that the whole subject of barrack accommodation
 378
 MR. FITZROY said, it appeared to him that there was great dissatisfaction felt both as regarded the locality and the requirements of the service to much of the barrack accommodation throughout the country. He hoped that the subject of barrack accommodation generally would be now carefully considered. He hoped that the new barracks would be erected only in those large and open spaces where ample room would be afforded for large masses of soldiery acting together.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he wished to
 379
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER said that he thought the most satisfactory way of dealing with the Bill would be to allow it to be read a second time that evening. Before it went into Committee such alterations might be made in the Bill as would meet the views of the Irish members, whose suggestions for rendering it more effective the Government would be happy to receive.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER said, his desire was to contribute to the settlement of this question, and, therefore, he had suggested that there should be a conference between the Government and the Irish Members on the subject. If the result of that conference should not be satisfactory to the Irish Members, he did not deny their right to move for a Committee, or to take any other course which might appear to them to be necessary. After the conference those hon. Gentlemen would stand in the same position as they did at present. All he wished was that an intermediate conference should be held in order to see whether the grounds of difference could not be arranged.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD said, he thought that there ought to be a distinct understanding that if an agreement were not come to, the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee.
 LORD ELCHO said, he would take advantage of it to ask a question of the hon. Member for Bristol with reference to a Motion which stood in his name to move that an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to give directions that an inquiry may be instituted into the conduct of Lieutenant General Lord Lucan for ordering a charge of the Light Cavalry at the battle of Balaklava. He wished to ask the hon. Gentleman whether it was his intention, and if so, when he intended, to bring forward that Motion? The House was doubtless aware that his noble and gallant relative (Lord Lucan) had read in the other House of Parliament a letter addressed to the Minister of War by Lord Raglan. That letter, dated the 16th of December, contained charges so grave that his gallant relative, though refused a court-martial on his first arrival in England, felt it incumbent on him to address a letter to the Commander in Chief praying him to reconsider that decision. His gallant relative, referring to Lord Raglan's letter of the 16th of December, said—
 "This letter contains entirely new matter, and is replete with new charges reflecting more seriously than before on my professional judgment and character. There is now imputed to me, and for the first time, inattention to and neglect of another order, and, again, a total incapacity to carry out my instructions, and to avail myself of the means placed by his Lordship at my disposal. Charges so grave, and of a character so exclusively professional, cannot, I submit, be properly disposed of without a military investigation. I find myself, therefore, compelled to express my anxious
 347
 LORD HOTHAM said, he was quite sure that the Committee—if they were aware of the present state of the port of Hull—would not be surprised at the anxiety expressed by the inhabitants of that town with respect to its defenceless condition. It should be recollected that Hull is the great emporium of the trade of the north of Europe, and of late years there had been a great deal of accommodation furnished by the dock company of that port. They were now engaged in hostilities with Russia, and it was not surprising that a strong desire should be evinced to place the enormous amount of property congregated in that port in something like a position of security. When they considered the extent to which projectiles could now be thrown, it must be perceived that the port of Hull might as well be without defences at all as left to depend for its defence on the present fortification. If a hostile force should come up the Humber, the walls of the fort would be in as much danger from the recoil of the few guns upon it as from the fire from the enemy's vessels. He was, consequently, glad to hear of the measures which the Govern were about to adopt with respect to this
 366
 MR. DUNLOP said, he trusted that, taking into consideration the immense amount of shipping in the Clyde, the Government would see the necessity of rearming the fortress of Dumbarton.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT said, he wished to have some explanation of the item of 3,560 l. l.
 MR. DISRAELI said the Bill appeared to him to be a Bill of indemnity to the Government. Such a Bill, if not viewed with suspicion, ought at least to be looked at with considerable vigilance by that House. Some hon. Members, it appeared, thought it would be convenient to discuss the matter at the Treasury Chambers, imagining that the difficulties which now existed would then disappear, and that was evidently the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, but in the mean time he asked the House to read the Bill a second time. He (Mr. Disraeli) did not object to the propriety of Ministers of the Crown cultivating a frank acquaintance with Members of the House; but it was preposterous, when difficulties arose, that a Minister should propose to make those difficulties vanish by private communications behind the Speaker's chair or at the Treasury, asking the House at the same time to assent to the principle of the measure. The proper course would be to postpone the second reading of the Bill until the difficulties could be settled. Nothing could be more inconvenient and unconstitutional than the habit, which was growing into a practice,
 381
 MR. ADDERLEY said, that in reference to the Votes for works in the Colo
 376
 MR. COWAN said, he wished to remind the hon. Gentleman the Clerk of the Ordnance that all along the eastern coast of Scotland, where there was a vast amount of capital engaged in the pursuits of industry and commerce, there was nothing whatever in the shape of a fortress to serve for its protection. And yet, of this large sum now to be voted not a single shilling was to be applied to that purpose, unless, indeed, something was included in the vote of 48,000 l., l. 370
 MR. ROCHE said, he hoped the Government would give them a Select Committee on the subject, and if they acceded to that proposal he trusted his hon. Friend (Mr. Pollard-Urquhart) would withdraw his amendment.
 MR. HORSMAN said, there had been some misunderstanding on the subject; if, on a conference with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the right hon. Gentleman did not think it necessary to make the desired changes in the measure, there would be no objection to refer it to a Select Committee.
 MR. G. DUNDAS said, that the country had great reason to complain of the delay evinced by the Government in adopting fresh improvements. The fact was, however, that it was part of the "system." We were overwhelmed with Boards, when if the matter rested with one man it would be immediately arranged. The Government had for once broken through the "system" at Woolwich, and had placed a man there of great ability and aptitude, who had already saved the country at least 16,000 l. l.
 MR. GRANVILLE VERNON said, he would add his voice to that of the Irish Members, in hoping the Government would adopt the reasonable course suggested.
 MR. BAILLIE said, what his hon. Friend (Mr. Adderley) complained of, was the cost of erecting barracks at the Cape. His hon. Friend said, that if we pay for troops at the Cape, surely it was not too much to expect that the colony would furnish them with barrack accommodation.
 MR. LABOUCHERE said, he had no wish to object to the providing of sufficient barrack accommodation, but he should like to know whether, before this estimate was framed, a general survey of the barrack accommodation of the United Kingdom had been made; and if so, whether any Report had been made, and whether there would be any objection to lay such Report on the table?
 MR. MAGUIRE said, that several gentlemen had expressed their belief that the new instrument would not only be suitable for cavalry, but that it might, if adapted to the Minié rifle, be found of the greatest
 351
 MR. MAGUIRE said, he wished to bring under the consideration of the House certain improvements in the manufacture of breech-loading firearms and the importance of adopting such improvements in the British army. There seemed to be the same prejudice against these improved arms as there was against the introduction of the Minié rifle, but that prejudice he hoped soon to see removed. Within a very short time, he had had an opportunity of testing two or three breech-loading arms, and the weapon he was most anxious to bring to their notice was Sharpe's breech-loading rifle. In 1850, Mr. Sharpe, then a simple mechanic, presented himself before the chief of the United States Board of Ordnance, and laid the result of his ingenuity before him. The weapon was tried, and the result was a recommendation to the War Department to have it tested. The War Department accordingly ordered 500 of the weapons to be made according to the inventor's pattern, and placed them in the hands of the troops engaged in active service on the frontiers, with the view of testing their capabilities. The result was eminently favourable. It was
 348 349
 MR. MASTERS SMITH said, he wished to call the attention of the Committee to the Vote for the defence of the River Thames; and also to an item for 2,000 l.
 MR. SULLIVAN said, he should give his utmost opposition to the Bill, unless the Government made a candid statement of their intentions.
 MR. MONTAGUE CHAMBERS said, he believed that the vast total of the Estimates arose from the large number of
 377
 MR. BELLEW said, that having witnessed the experiments at Lord Ranelagh's, he could also bear testimony to the excellence of Sharpe's rifles. He suggested, as they could be purchased in any quantity in America, that it would be much better to send for them to that country than to manufacture them here.
 MR. W. BROWN said, he merely wished to direct attention to some huts open for inspection at Willis's Rooms. These huts each contained twenty-two feet of space, and could be divided into four parts; the whole weight was eighteen cwt., while they had stoves and glass windows. Besides this they were double boarded and lined with India rubber, and he had seen them taken down in four minutes and put up in eight; their total cost being 22 l. s.
 MR. MONSELL said, that a great number of the militia had been lodged during the last war in barracks, which a false economy had led previous Governments to get rid of. At this very moment they were building new barracks at Winchester, whereas an edifice which would have supplied a much larger amount of accommodation had been sold, for a miserable sum, by one of his (Mr. Monsell's) predecessors, about the year 1833. It would be well if the Committee would take warning for the future from the experience of the past. He (Mr. Monsell) had lately had his attention strongly drawn to the subject of lodging the troops, and the result of his calculations had been that supposing the regular forces to remain on the footing on which they stood a month ago, there would be a deficiency of accommodation to the extent of 70,000 men. Under these circumstances, it appeared to him that the wisest course would be to erect those temporary buildings of which they had heard so much. He believed that it would be the cheapest measure they could adopt, and it would afford the troops the advantage of being exercised in large masses. With respect to the sum which was to be expended on the defences for Liverpool, he could assure the hon. Gentleman (Mr. W. Williams) that it would be 34,000 l. 368 369
 MR. MONSELL said that there had been some new barracks built for the soldiers, and now there were new ones required for the officers who commanded them. As to the item for chapel schools, the building would be used as a school on week days, and for the purpose of celebrating divine service on Sundays; but there would be no extra charge for the services of a chaplain. That matter was not in his department, and therefore he should not offer any explanation of it. In answer to the observations of the hon. Member for Southwark (Mr. A. Pellatt) with respect to the officers' barracks at Sheerness, he begged to say that there were no barracks at present existing which could be used for the accommodation of the officers, and it was therefore intended to provide them now. The hon. and gallant Member for Portarlington (Colonel Dunne) complained that the barracks at Aldershot were temporary; but the truth was, that they proposed to erect permanent barracks for 10,000 men, which would be constructed according to the most approved plans followed in France and Belgium, as ascertained by the Commission of engineer officers. He quite agreed with the hon. and gallant Member, that it was extremely desirable to promote the comfort of the soldiers in barracks, and that object had not been lost sight of in the present estimates. With respect to the Ship Street barracks in Dublin, a sum of 5,000 l.
 MR. MONSELL said, he was happy to be able to inform the right hon. Baronet that his views with respect to the town of Hull were at this moment being Carrie out. A portion of the Vote of 48,000 l.
 MR. MONSELL said, that the cost was founded, in the first instance, upon the estimate made by their own officer, and afterwards upon the amount of the temporary barracks already contracted for.
 MR. MONSELL said, the hon. and gallant Member must be aware that he had no control in the world over that matter. He could only promise to bring the suggestion under the notice of the proper authorities.
 MR. MONSELL said, the most minute and careful calculations had been made on the subject. It had been already stated, that there would be a deficiency in barrack accommodation th the extent of somewhere about 70,000 men, when the whole of the militia were embodied. Although a large sum was taken for lodging 50,000 men in temporary barracks, there would be no necessity for proceeding with the permanent barracks more rapidly than they were required. Permanent barracks for 30,000 men were now in progress, and although the Government had proposed votes which would enable them to provide permanent barrack accommodation for 20,000 additional men, those barracks would not be erected unless it were found they were likely to be wanted.
 MR. MONSELL said, that it would probably be his duty, in the course of a few days, to explain certain alterations about to be made in the Ordnance Department, by which he hoped that any faults existing in the present contract system would be entirely removed. The subject of barrack accommodation had received the careful attention of the Government during the last year, and changes were in contemplation which would involve the abandonment of the detached barracks, many of them not affording accommodation for more than 200 men, which he regarded as a pest to the country, and as objectionable, not merely on economical, but upon social and political grounds.
 MR. MONSELL said, he could assure his hon. Friend that the attention of the Government had been directed to the subject. They had taken steps this year to withdraw the garrisons from all places in Canada, except Quebec and Kingston. In Australia, the military force was at present about one-fourth of what it was. In regard to the Cape of Good Hope, the necessity of the large expenditure proposed arose from the removal of the head-quarters to Graham's Town. It was impossible to effect the desired object at once, but considerable progress towards it had been made.
 MR. MONSELL said, he really admitted with the hon. Member for Dungarvon that it was extremely important that they should, with the least possible delay, intro-
 350
 MR. MONSELL said, that the sum of 30,000 l. l. l. 354 l. l. 355
 MR. MONSELL said that in July or August, Sharpe's carbine arrived in this country, and was submitted to the Select Committee at Woolwich. That Committee made a very favourable report of it, as also of two or three other descriptions of breech-loading guns. All the guns referred to had been sent to Hythe for trial, and those trials had, he believed, now been completed, and in a very short time the best description would have been selected.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART said he must also demand an explanation from the Government, and he should therefore move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 MR. POLLARD -URQUHART said, upon that understanding he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE said, he thought the course which had just been proposed by the right hon. Gentleman would scarcely prove satisfactory, inasmuch as the suggestions of the Irish members might have
 380
 MR. W. WILLIAMS said, that the misfortunes which had befallen our troops had created so great a feeling of sympathy that nobody had made the least objection to any proposition of the Government. He thought, however, that Her Majesty's Ministers had taken advantage of the feeling of the House to bring forward items that were quite uncalled for, and that were upon a scale the most extravagant. Thus, he found in the Estimates for the last and the present year no less a sum than 871,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 367 l. l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS said, he wished to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government upon a subject to which he had the other evening directed the attention of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department. The right hon. Baronet had stated upon that occasion that offers had been made to the Government for the formation of volunteer rifle corps, but that those offers had been refused. He (Mr. Williams) was anxious to know what were the grounds of that refusal. He could himself see no objection to the formation of those corps, and he believed that, in case of invasion, they would be found extremely useful.
 MR. OTWAY said, it was impossible to look upon this Vote without some amount of consternation, when they saw that something like 1,500,000 l. l.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS said, he wished to impress on the Committee the expediency of improving the accommodation of barracks as they existed at present, for he believed they were very limited. There was no doubt that it was a false economy, and it operated very injuriously, especially with regard to the recruiting service, to have
 371 372 373 l.
 SIR GEORGE TYLER said, he had urged upon the Government the necessity of establishing defences along the coast, and did so with the conviction that the Bristol Channel was not sufficiently defended. He had called attention particularly to the ports of Cardiff and Swansea, and he hoped a portion of the grant intended for the protection of harbours along the coast would be applied to the defence of those two ports to which he referred.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE said, he was glad to find that the Government were, though too tardily, about to adopt a system of greater concentration in our army at home. He had himself been some years in the army, and his experience enabled him to state that nothing was so injurious to the discipline of a regiment as to fritter it away in small detachments, or to place the men on billets in public-houses. And if this was prejudicial even to regular and trained troops, how much more so must it be to newly-raised levies like the militia—raw and undisciplined as they necessarily must be? It was a system equally injurious to them and detrimental to the inhabitants of the districts in which they were billeted. The camp to be formed at Aldershot had great advantages for the militia and the army at large, and he believed it was intended to form a permanent military station; if so, certainly it was being constructed very hastily and superficially, and in such a way (the wood being fixed in the ground instead of being raised on a brick footing) that it would not last above three or four years, and enormous expense would be incurred in repairs; whereas, for a little more money, it might be constructed durably and properly. Great injury and inconvenience arose from the old system of having the troops scattered up and down the country, as a kind of aid to the police: occasionally called out to assist the Coast Guard or preserve the peace of manufacturing towns. It was necessary that such a system should cease, and he thought the collecting the troops together in camps would be of the
 362
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON said, the other night, when the first Vote on these Estimates was proposed, he stated that, in addition to the great difficulties which the contractors would have to contend with in the building of the huts in the short space of six weeks, the specification contained materials which could not be procured in this country, and in answer to the noble Lord the Member for Totness (Lord Seymour), the hon. Gentleman the mover of
 365
 MR. JACKSON said, he concurred in the view of the hon. Member for North Staffordshire (Mr. Adderley). With regard to the various items of the present Vote, there were some which appeared to him to be very extravagant. There was one item of 250 l.
 MR. JACKSON said, he wished to know upon what Report of the Ordnance Department the hon. Gentleman had made his estimates?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON said, if he understood the matter rightly, this was not exactly a Bill of indemnity to the Government. He believed the irregularity had been going on for a considerable time, and was equally applicable to other Governments. The difference which existed was more in appearance than reality. The Bill could not be referred to a Select Committee until it had been read a second time, and, therefore, in order to attain the object sought by hon. Members, it was necessary that the Motion for the second reading should be agreed to. If no agreement were come to between the Irish Members and his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, it would then be as competent for any Member to move the reference of the Bill to a Select Committee as it was at present.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON said, that if he agreed with his right hon. Friend that these were votes for creating great and permanent establishments which would not be required after the momentary emergency had ceased, he would concede to him that the Committee ought not to sanction them. But the contrary was the fact. The great mistake which the Government and Parliament of this country had made since the last peace was, that they had acted by fits and starts, and from the impulse of the moment, rather than from any settled and steady system of policy. It was all very well to say that the permanent defence of this country must be its naval force, and that we wanted no army or troops; but that was a claptrap which the good sense of the right hon. Gentleman ought not to suffer him to use. [Mr. ELLICE: I did not say that we ought to keep up no army.] These votes were part of a permanent system of defence, not providing against any particular danger in one year rather than another, but enabling the country to maintain a proper position of independence. It was perfectly manifest that a great nation like this must have organised within the country some means of defence proportioned to its financial and political condition, and something in addition to its naval force. [Mr. ELLICE: Hear, hear.] Well, that was granted, and it was very well to have some foundation to proceed from in an argument. The great mistake, however, he would repeat was, that after the termination of the last war, the Government and the Parliament considered that halcyon days were beginning, and that we should never again have occasion to defend ourselves from aggression, to vindicate our honour, or prepare for active hostilities. The consequence was, that the Government had rushed to the demolition and disposal of the greater part of its barrack accommodation, the inconvenience of which was, that in time of peace there was not barrack accommodation even for the re-
 358 359 360
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON said, that in reply to his hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth he had to state that when he was at the Home Office he received from different parts of the country a great many offers to form these corps. He had to consider, first, whether there would not be a certain amount of expense attending their formation, and in the next place whether any possible utility was to be expected from them. There was no doubt that a certain amount of expense would attend their formation; and it appeared to him that they could be of no earthly use. The offers were chiefly from inland places. We were under no fear of an invasion, and if we were he did not think that volunteer corps of this kind would be of any practical service whatever. They would be composed of tradesmen and persons in business, persons occupied in the en-
 352
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, that the petty officers of the  Investigator l., l. s.,
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he feared the noble Lord was calling upon the House to incur a very large expenditure, and without very sufficient grounds. We had had in England maps made on a very large scale for the Tithe Commission, and the landed proprietors had paid for them. It was now asked that maps should be made on a scale which was of no use to the public, or worse than useless for practical purposes, and which the public would have to pay for. What had the taxpayers of this country to do with the landed estates of gentlemen in Scotland, that we should be called upon to pay for surveying them? As for the large scale, it had been tried to some extent in the Island of Lewis, and the map of one county would be so large, that it could hardly be got into any room of any gentleman's house. Another objection was, that if a map were made in which every hedge and gate should be marked out, it would be necessary to correct that map every year or two, because alterations were constantly going on in the country. No doubt, the engineers would tell us that, when they had to make a railroad or any other work, the one-inch scale was not sufficient, but let those who needed, for their own purposes, a larger map of any particular locality, procure it at their own expense.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he should be glad to know what was the difference of expense between the six-inch scale and the twenty-six and two-thirds inch scale? He did not suppose there was so much difference of cost between the six-inch and one-inch scales, because it would be necessary for a man to draw his sketch of the survey upon a scale as large as six inches to the mile at first, and it would be afterwards reduced for engraving. He thought a four-inch or six-inch scale quite sufficient for ordinary purposes, and then anybody who wanted a more detailed survey of his own estates might employ a man to enlarge the map.
 MR. E. ELLICE  said, Scotland had been nothing but a scene of experiment for the last half dozen years, and he was extremely glad the question had been brought before the House; for, unless they took it into their own hands, Scotland might wait until the present generation had passed by before it obtained a good and useful map adapted for all purposes. The Committee, after examining many witnesses, were unanimously of opinion that on the score of utility, economy, and public opinion, the one-inch scale was the best to adopt. Their Report was acted upon by the Treasury; but a change of Government afterwards took place, and an agitation was got up, they never knew by what means, in order to petition the Government to reverse the order of the Treasury, and to act contrary to the Report of the Committee. The Chancellor of the Exchequer at that time, without taking a single step to ascertain how far the public of Scotland wished the alteration to be made, at once decided that the country should be surveyed on the six-inch scale. He hoped the House, however, would now arrive at some practical conclusion in regard to the scale upon which the map was to be prepared.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he considered that the House was indebted to his noble
 413 414
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, it was his intention, when the Resolution for the scientific branch was brought up, of moving the reduction of the estimate by the sum of 53,000 l.,
 MR. ELLICE  said, he wished the Vote to be suspended until the House had some positive assurance from the Government. It was a scandal to the Government that Scotland should have been so long left without a map. He hoped that the noble Lord (Lord Seymour) would press that the Vote be diminished by 53,000 l.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that an impression had gone abroad that the only breech-loading carbines submitted to the authorities had been those invented by an American and a Frenchman. He had himself understood the hon. Gentleman to say that others had been submitted, and he wished to know if his impression was correct. He was also desirous of asking if it was intended to change the 6-pounder gun of the Horse Artillery to a 9-pounder?
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, as he had intimated his intention to do, he would now move that the Resolution be reduced by the sum of 53,000 l.,
 LORD SEYMOUR : Then was the House to understand from the noble Lord that nothing would be done respecting the larger scale except finishing the experiment?
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he hoped, if the experiments were concluded in June, and the House were sitting, as it generally was till the beginning of August, that no delay would take place in bringing the matter to a final decision.
 MR. E. ELLICE  said, it was his opinion that nothing should be done on the larger scale, until the subject again came under discussion upon the Estimates next year.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, a circumstance had just come to his knowledge which induced him to ask a question of the hon. Gentleman the Clerk of the Ordnance. It had very recently been stated in another place by the noble Lord the Minister of War, that those enormous Votes which a Committee of the House had lately passed for building barracks in different parts of the country, were not to be acted upon until a reorganisation of the Board of Ordnance was effected. He begged to ask the hon. Gentleman whether he could give the House any information on the subject?
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he thought that, as the present was the first occasion on which these Estimates had been framed under the new arrangement, that was the best opportunity for making any observations on the transfer of the Commissariat business to the department of the Secretary of State for War. The business hitherto carried on by the Commissariat and the Treasury was of two kinds—one really military and the other purely banking and financial. No doubt every item of expenditure which was strictly military ought to be under the superintendence of the Minister of War, but he was afraid that the effect of the minute by which the Commissariat had been transferred from the Treasury to the War Department, would be to place the banking and strictly financial business of the Commissariat in the hands of the Secretary for War. It would be a great misfortune at the present moment to give that Minister any single thing to do which could be done equally well by somebody else, and which there was no inherent necessity for him to do; and, moreover, there was no particular reason why that functionary should be a good judge of such matters as banking and finance. In the Colonies, too, the Commissariat had much business to transact—such, for instance, as conducting the expenditure necessary for the convict establishments—which had no reference whatever to military matters, but which, under the new arrangement, would have to pass through the hands of the War Minister instead of being referred directly to the Treasury. He was afraid, therefore, that if this minute was carried into operation as it at present stood, the effect would be to introduce great confusion into the public accounts. It must be remembered that since the war great alterations had been made in the mode of keeping the Commissariat accounts in the Paymaster General's Office and also in the Audit Office, and he very much doubted whether the arrangements for checking the public accounts in time of peace would be sufficient for the large expenditure required in a time of war. Great difficulties and confusion would arise, and Parliament would cease to have that control over the
 443
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he must object to reference being made in debate to the proceedings of a Select Committee whilst still sitting.
 MR. CHAIRMAN  said, the hon. Member for Lambeth was not in order.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, that the object of the Government should be to consolidate under one head all the departments which were military ones; but not to load the purely military departments with matters which did not properly belong to them. That, he apprehended, was his right hon. Friend's (Sir F. Baring's) view of the subject. Now, he did not think that this
 445 l.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he believed the army would gain a great deal by the transfer of the Commissariat from the Treasury to the Minister of War. Last year when the expedition to the East had been undertaken he had been led to apprehend that the business of the Commissariat would be greatly mismanaged, from the fact that it was to be intrusted to the same gentleman, Sir Charles Trevelyan, to whom had been committed the duty of presiding over the supply of provisions in Ireland during the recent famine in that country, and that apprehension had since been completely realised. He found that the same reckless waste of money, the same outrageous audacity, which had mark-
 450 Jason, l. l., l. l., 451
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he considered the observations of the Secretary to the Treasury required explanation. He understood the hon. Gentleman to say that the contract system was to be universally applied, even to the army in the East. The system might do very well in this country, with its large mercantile population, but would fail if they attempted to make contracts at Varna, at Constantinople, or in Asia Minor. The Armenian or Jew who took the contract might disappear, and there would be no possibility of enforcing the penalty. He thought a good deal of the misfortunes which had occurred during the last six months might be traced to the contract system, and he wished to know whether in the purchases made in the East, the Commissariat had been required by the Treasury up to December last to proceed upon that system?
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he begged to move for leave to bring in a Bill to release William Philip Price, Esq., M.P., from any disability he may have incurred by reason of a contract for sending wooden houses to the army in the Crimea. Persons standing in the position of contractors with the Government were by law disqualified from sitting in that House, or from voting at the election of its Members. In the case of Mr. Price, however, no benefit had resulted from the contract, and it had proceeded entirely on public grounds. There was nothing in his position, therefore, contrary to the spirit of the Act of Parliament.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that there were a great number of cases in which the House had interfered to relieve individuals from disabilities, which were not in reality contrary to the spirit of the law.
 COLONEL BOLDERO  said, the Committee would remember that on a former occasion he asked a question of the Secretary of the Treasury respecting certain cargoes of porter which had been sent from this country, and after having arrived at Constantinople were sent back again in consequence of there being no officer appointed to receive them there. The hon. Gentleman did not at the time answer the question; but on the 26th of last month he took the opportunity of doing so, and stated that in one case a vessel was sent to Malta, but when it arrived the troops had left that place, and that vessel was subsequently sent on to Varna; another vessel had, in the same way, after having been first sent to Constantinople, been sent to Varna, and subsequently to the Crimea; another vessel landed her cargo at Scutari, where it was used; and the fourth of those vessels carried her cargo to Varna, and it was consumed there. The hon. Gentleman also said that there was no foundation for the rumour that any action for nonperformance of contract was pending against the Government, although, of course, the claims made by the contractors for the additional length of voyage were under examination. This was the answer of the hon. Gentleman as reported in the  Times l. 455 Jane Cockerell s. i. l.
 COLONEL BOLDERO  said, he would suggest the adoption of a uniform scale of two inches, which had been found perfectly satisfactory in those parts of England where it had been carried out.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he wished to know why so many 6-pounder guns had been shipped for the Crimea when their inferiority had been ascertained at the close of the last war.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to the subject of the Ordnance survey of Scotland. He was aware the subject was a dull one, and not likely to interest those whose attention had not been specially called to it; but he, nevertheless, considered the question of our national survey as one of considerable importance. Great differences of opinion prevailed as to what that survey should be. It was at the close of the last century that the Ordnance survey of Great Britain commenced. The scale then adopted was one inch for a mile, which was considered sufficient for all purposes. The survey on that scale proceeded steadily from the south of England towards the north. The first departure from it was in consequence of the recommendation of a Committee of that House in 1824, which reported in favour of a map of Ireland on a six inch scale, the object of the survey being a general valuation of the property of that country, this recommendation of the Committee was adopted by the Government. The people of Scotland afterwards memorialised the Government for the same extension of the scale to the survey of their country. On the 1st of October, 1840, a Treasury minute was passed, which ordered that the survey of Scotland also should be on a scale of six inches to the mile; but, in consequence of the great dissatisfaction which prevailed in that country upon the subject, he, in 1851, moved for a Committee to inquire into the whole question, and which Committee finally reported in favour of abandoning the six-inch scale and returning to the one-inch scale. The Government of Lord John Russell adopted the recommendation of the Committee, and by a Treasury minute it was ordered that
 409 410 l., l. l. l. 411
 LORD ELCHO  said, that he had read to the House the estimate of Colonel Jones as to the large scale, and that of the Ordnance engineers with regard to the six-inch scale. According to Colonel Jones's estimate, the expense of mapping that portion of Scotland that was proposed to be done on the large scale was 522,000 l., 412 l., l.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he saw no reason why the House should not finally determine the question as soon as these experiments were fairly concluded, and, if possible, before the close of the present Session. He was astonished at the course taken by several Scotch Members in opposing the extended scale. Scotchmen generally knew what was to the advantage of their country, and they usually pulled together to secure it. The hon. Member for St. Andrew's rather pooh-poohed these memorials, but among the fifty-nine which had been presented from almost every county in Scotland in favour of the large scale, one was a memorial from the town council of St. Andrew's. It was well known to Scotch Members, though not perhaps so well known to others, that the hon. Member was a Highland proprietor, and the only bit of cultivated land he possessed was a small garden. He thought it rather selfish of the hon. Gentleman to advocate the small scale, to the prejudice of his Lowland friends, who had not the happiness to live in so picturesque and wild a part of the country. He hoped that, before the question came on for discussion, hon. Gentlemen would read the blue book, which contained every information that was required on the subject.
 LORD LOVAINE  said, he must congratulate the country on the Commissariat service being transferred to the War Department. He considered that the system of appointing the Commissariat from civilians alone was not the best, and he would recommend the plan pursued in the
 454
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he would entreat the House not to prejudge this matter before the materials for deciding upon it were before them. This was not a Scotch question alone, but one affecting the entire country. Within the last few days millions of money had been voted for warlike purposes without opposition; but now that an experiment for a great object of scientific and civil improvement was proposed, hon. Gentlemen started up and objected to it.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he wished to know if there was any precedent for the course which the hon. and learned Gentleman proposed to take?
 MR. A. STAFFORD  said, that the answer of the Secretary of the Treasury was like all other answers received from that bench. Everything was admitted. Some matters were referred to other departments, and inquiries were to be made with regard to others. In this case the hon. Gentleman admitted that no considerable quantity of porter had gone out, and that there had been a charge for demurrage. He did not consider that any reference to the evidence taken before the Committee upstairs was necessary, for, as the inquiry went on, each day showed a more astounding revelation than the preceding, and proved that the departments were totally incompetent to perform the most ordinary transactions. The noble Lord the Member for Totness (Lord Sey-
 457 458
 MR. OLIVEIRA  said, he rose to ask the right hon. Baronet the First Commissioner of Works whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to take any steps during the present Session of Parliament in reference to the Report of the Select Committee of last Session upon Metropolitan Bridges?
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he thought the question before the House was whether such a combination of offices as at present existed was advisable without absolute necessity. If the noble Lord had made out such a case of necessity no person could say anything, for necessity overrides all laws; but the noble Lord merely sought to shelve the question by saying that if the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington) had any charge against the Government let it be brought forward. There was no charge made against the Government; the question was not put in the shape of a definite Motion, and could in no way embarrass the Government. If the Government could not recommend any person to Her Majesty to take this department, the question would be embarrassing; but they had no idea that the noble Viscount was reduced to such an extremity. He would support the right hon. Baronet if he pressed the question by a definite Motion, because he could not see that it would embarrass the Government. It would be small consolation to him if the present state of affairs shook the attachment of some of the Colonies, or caused the loss of others of them, that they should be able to impeach the noble Lord or to inflict condign punishment upon him. If the noble Lord could even be beheaded it would be little consolation to him (Mr. Adderley), or to the country, if the Colonial Empire of England was damaged. The present was a most critical period in colonial affairs, and was the most unfortunate that could have been chosen for a combination of offices. At the close
 427 428
 MR. COWAN  said, that the cost to the public of a copy of the one-inch map for Scotland would be 3 l. s., l.
 MR. ROCHE  said, he must maintain that the system of contract and the acceptance of the lowest tenders was the most advisable, and would be found to answer best, provided there was a proper system of inspection. If any other plan than taking the lowest tenders were to be adopted, it would at once lead to an impression that contracts were only to be obtained from the Government by indirect means and influences, and Members of Parliament would be besieged by persons endeavouring to make them use their political or personal influence to obtain contracts; and the effect would be that all confidence in the Executive would be destroyed.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he must protest against the views advanced by the hon. Member for Inverness-shire (Mr. Baillie), and at the same time he would beg to express his entire concurrence in what has been stated by the Lord Advocate, and in the suggestions made by the noble Lord the Member for Haddingtonshire (Lord Elcho), to whom Scotland owed a debt of gratitude for the zeal and the ability which he brought to bear on so truly important a subject.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that on having received notice on this subject from the hon. Gentleman on Friday, he had sent to Ireland for the necessary information to enable him to answer it; and he was now able to state the circumstances, which were slightly different from the impression the hon. Gentleman had received of them. Mr. Hughes, owing to the illness of one of the Judges, was appointed to go the Leinster Circuit, but he was not the only Judge, there being two for the circuit. The commission was opened at Wexford on the 2nd of March, and Mr. Hughes did not leave on the 2nd while the grand jury was being charged; but having on the 1st of March received a letter, asking him to stand for the county of Cavan, he left on that day and went to the Lord Chancellor, and stated that, as he was anxious to be a candidate for Cavan, he wished that a substitute should be appointed in his place on the circuit. Before he left Wexford Mr. Hughes had arranged with Baron Greene that he should perform all the duties of the Judges, and do all the business, which was very light, as it began on the 2nd, and was all over on the 3rd March. A substitute for Mr. Hughes was provided, who joined the circuit at Waterford. He had asked a further question of the Lord Chancellor, to the effect whether the absence of Mr. Hughes had caused any public inconvenience. The Lord Chancellor had stated in reply that no complaint had reached him of any interruption of the business of the circuit, and that no inconvenience had been felt by the public. He should add that no pecuniary loss would accrue to the public, because, although Mr. Hughes was entitled to 400 l.
 MR. FRENCH  said, he begged to ask the hon. Member for Gloucester (Admiral Berkeley), if it was true that the crew of Her Majesty's ship  Investigator,
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he would beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary for Ireland, whether it was a fact that Mr. Hughes, one of the Judges of Assize on the Leinster Circuit, when about to open Her Majesty's commission in the Crown Court at Wexford (the High Sheriff and grand jury being then in attendance), proceeded to canvass the electors of a northern county, although no vacancy in its representation had taken place, and whether any permission or instruction had been given to Mr. Hughes to do so, either by the Lord Lieutenant or
 407
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, he wished to know what was the precise position of the Treasury clerks who had been attached to the Commissariat Department in the East, and whether they were to form a permanent portion of the latter branch of the public service? There was another point to which he was anxious to advert for a moment. They had been told that the troops were to be supplied with fresh meat only once or twice a week. Now, he was sure that the country would receive that intelligence with regret. He had been informed that fresh preserved meat could be supplied to any amount at a cost of not more than from 2 d. d.
 MR. BAILLIE  said, he wished to know whether any explanation had been given to the House why the army had for so long a time been rationed almost exclusively on salt meat? Any amount of fresh provisions might have readily, with the means of transport which we possessed, been obtained from Sinope, Asia Minor, and other ports.
 MR. BAILLIE  said, he gave the noble Lord all due praise for his desire to promote an undertaking so useful as that of the survey of Scotland, but he at the same time thought the feeling of the House was so much against the great expense of sur-
 418
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he trusted the Chancellor of the Exchequer would adopt that plan which he thought would be most satisfactory both in Scotland and in England—namely, the one-inch scale, which he believed would be well adapted for all useful purposes.
 MR. RICH  said, he hoped that, between doing justice to Scotland and Ireland, some consideration would be given to what was due to England. He must protest against this demand as extravagant, and he trusted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would resist the pressure which it was attempted to put upon him at a time when all the resources of the country were required to carry on the war.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, in his opinion the twenty-five and one-third inch scale would be the most valuable and useful of the larger scales proposed, though the one-inch scale might be most available for ordinary purposes. There was one reason why he should himself be in favour of the twenty-five and one-third inch scale—that it would enable Scotland to carry out the great object of simplifying the conveyance of land by having a public map available for purposes of boundaries between private properties.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he was sorry to hear hon. Gentlemen speak of the larger map as if it would be of no use except to the landowners. It might be quite true that the expense of executing the map might be greater than the benefit to be derived from it—that was a completely different question. For statistical and sanitary purposes a map on the large scale would be a national work of the greatest possible importance; and this not only as regarded Scotland, but likewise England and Ireland. He hoped that the experiment would be fairly tried, and that hon. Members would suspend their judgment until they saw the result.
 MR. WILSON  said, the right hon. Baronet (Sir F. Baring) had referred to the transfer of the Commissariat from the Treasury to the War Department. The right hon. Baronet must be well aware that the duties of the Commissariat officers were of a very varied character and connected with all departments of the Government; they had to perform duties for the military, the naval, and the civil departments. Their duties were both financial and administrative, and they combined the functions of bankers and merchants. Their accounts came home to the Audit Office; they were there adjusted, and the various items placed to the charge of the different departments. There was a large independent fund, under the control of the Commissariat, called the Commissariat Chest Fund, amounting to 1,200,000 l.,
 MR. WILSON  said, that ample arrangements were made for a supply of fresh provisions from the coast of Asia Minor, and why it should have failed so much of late he was unable to state; but he saw from accounts in the public papers that the difficulty of transport was very great, and the difficulty of feeding cattle far greater. It also appeared that great numbers of the cattle had died. With regard to the contract system there could be but one opinion, that in every possible shape and form in which that system could be brought to bear it should be adopted. Competition by open contracts was supported by all their experience, whether the end to be attained was economy or efficiency. He admitted the principle most fully, and as far as it could be carried out it had been carried out. At the Commissariat stations throughout the world, nothing was purchased by private contract or bargain, but everything by public contract; and so rigid were the rules of the service, that when the accounts were sent in to the Audit Board they had to be accompanied by the advertisements in the newspapers to show that the transactions were made public, and also the tenders themselves, to prove that the lowest tender had been accepted. How the principle could be extended further by rationing the army at
 449
 MR. WILSON  said, that, with reference to the observations of the hon. Member for Evesham (Sir H. Willoughby), the expenses of the Commissariat for the year 1854–5 would not be completely defrayed by the Vote of 650,000 l. l.
 MR. WILSON  said, that in consequence of the pressure of business, it had been found necessary to employ a number of Treasury clerks temporarily in the Commissariat Department, but it was intended that the Commissariat service should be entirely distinct from the Treasury. One gentleman connected with the Treasury, Mr. Blackwood, who had been selected to proceed to the Crimea in the Commissariat Department, had discharged his duties in a manner which had elicited high encomiums from those who were acquainted with his arrangements.
 MR. WILSON  said, his observations had no reference to the army in the East, and hon. Members would at once see the great difference between an army in the field and forty or fifty commissariat stations all over the world, where the number of troops was stated and stationary, and the contractors were amenable to the laws of the colony. His observations referred only to those establishments, and he did not mean to imply that the army in the East was to be fed by contract, because it required little consideration to perceive that such a mode would be most inefficient and unsatisfactory. The hon. Member for Stoke-upon-Trent (Mr. J. L. Ricardo) differed from the noble Lord the Member for Totness (Lord Seymour) because the noble Lord approved the contract system in highly civilised communities; and as
 453
 MR. WILSON  said, he was sure the hon. and gallant Gentleman did not intentionally
 456 l.
 MR. FERGUS  said, that several counties in Scotland had been done on the six-inch scale, which the people of Scotland most desired. As to the Highlands, the population would not break their hearts though no map of the Highlands were made during the present generation.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he considered that there ought to be one uniform scale for the whole of Great Britain; and the inch scale was very nearly that of the great military surveys of France, Austria, and Prussia.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he very much objected to the interests of the Colonies being neglected to suit the convenience of any Government. He believed the negotiations at Vienna would be so long, so tedious, so uncertain and contradictory, from day to day, that the most extraordinary difficulties would attend the conferences. That was well understood in France, where the Government did not entertain the opinion that they would lead
 437
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he held that the present was an anomalous and extraordinary situation, resulting from the peculiar exigencies of a crisis almost unprecedented, but he thought the experience of the noble Lord the Member for London peculiarly qualified him for the management of our colonial empire. He hoped that an idea so mischievous as that of a return to the former system of transportation would never find a place in the breast of any English statesman. That system offered a premium on crime in this country, whilst it was odious and despicable to the colonists. He was afraid the noble Lord would find that the ticket-of-leave system could not be persevered in; and if it were, it would produce a complete change in the manners and customs of this country and the rules of its Government.
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  said, he doubted very much whether the system of contract, as the Secretary to the Treasury termed it, or the system of tender, as he termed it, was the best, even in this country. Large companies usually added a very important proviso to their advertisements —that the lowest tender would not be accepted. That was not the custom in the case of the Government, and they had seen many contracts, such as the contracts for the clothing of the army and for the
 452
 MR. LOCKE  said, the map on the larger scale might be a good thing, but it did not follow that it would be a good thing for the House to spend the public money upon it. He must deprecate any further experimenting upon this subject, the only effect of which had been to prevent the public having a map at all. The Ordnance authorities, after the sort of rebuke which the Committee had administered to them, had systematically attempted to thwart it, for they had been experimenting upon every scale except that which the Committee had recommended.
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said, he wished to draw attention to the proposed encampment upon the Curragh of Kildare, and at the same time he hoped that it would be so managed as not to prejudice the training of race-horses now carried on; and also that it would not be allowed to interfere with the private rights which the holders of property adjacent had acquired by usage or custom.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he trusted that no hon. Member would be precluded by the fact that an inquiry was going on before a Committee from stating to the House important and pressing matters which had immediate practical results. The appointment of the Committee would do great harm if it had any such result.
 MR. LOWE  said, he was desirous of offering a few observations on a remark made by the right hon. Member for Droitwich, who had said that he had entered into a compact with the Australian colonies. The right hon. Baronet had not said what that compact was, but he gave the House to understand that the form of constitution to be submitted to the House was in a great measure the result of a compact which he had entered into with the Colonies when he was Colonial Secretary. Now, he (Mr. Lowe) considered that it would be most injurious if the compact which the right hon. Gentleman seemed to have entered into should be carried out; and when the proper time came for so doing he believed that he could show the House conclusive reasons why such a compact should not be sanctioned. At present he would confine himself to explaining why he thought that the right hon. Gentleman should not have entered into the compact to which he had referred. In 1850 it had been the pleasure of the House, contrary to his (Mr. Lowe's) opinion, to delegate to the Australian Colonies, unversed as three out of four were in the ordinary functions of self-government, the powers of a Constituent Assembly, the power of forming their own constitution. He objected to this, because he did not think that the Colonies were at that time sufficiently advanced to effectually carry out the powers so delegated, and the result had confirmed this impression. The policy of the Act of 1850 was this—the House washed its hands of the question of the colonial constitutions, and left to the Legislature of the Colony the power of choosing that which it might deem best, preserving to Her Majesty, but not to that House, the power of assenting to, or of disapproving thereof. He thought that, after this Act, the attitude of that House towards the colonial Legislatures on the subject of their future constitutions
 434 435 436
 MR. LAING  said, he objected to the unsatisfactory form of the accounts; some sort of detail should be given. He found one vote of over 1,500,000 l. 448
 MR. EWART  said, he would only for a very short time detain the House, if they would allow him an opportunity of doing justice to one of the greatest institutions of this country, by making a statement not without its interest to the country in general. The other night the state of our public schools was under consideration. It was felt at the most extensive of those schools, Eton, that justice had not been
 438
 MR. MONSELL  said, there would be no objection to lay the information upon the table if the hon. Gentleman would move for it.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he would endeavour to answer the question of the hon. and gallant Gentleman, though he begged to state that he had not had the opportunity of hearing the speech to which the hon. and gallant Member had referred; but he could understand that the noble Lord must have stated, in reference to those large works—the new barracks, which had been voted for so liberally—that their construction would not be commenced until the reorganisation of the Ordnance Department. He believed that reorganisation would take place in a very short time, and that there would be no delay in carrying out the works. He thought, however, it was the duty of the Government, even independently of the reorganisation of the Ordnance Department, to take into consideration the very strong feeling expressed by the House with respect to the mode of constructing the new barracks, and particularly to the establishing of day-rooms in them for the use of the soldiers. They would neglect their duty if they attempted to carry out those large Votes without paying due consideration to the suggestions that had been made in the course of the discussions in Committee.
 MR. MONSELL  said, that, in erecting barracks on the Curragh of Kildare, care would be taken not to interfere with the rights of property, or with the training of race-horses in that neighbourhood. He
 415
 MR. MONSELL  said, that 9-pounders had already been substituted for 6-pounders for the Horse Artillery in the Crimea. As
 416
 MR. MONSELL  said, the Ordnance acted upon the directions of the military authorities, whose business it was to decide on the calibre of the guns. He thought the hon. Member was incorrect in supposing a large number of 6-pounders had been sent to the Crimea. Only one 6-pounder battery was sent out, but it certainly was the prevailing opinion at the time that the Horse Artillery should have 6-pounder guns. Experience had led to a different conclusion, and 9-pounders had been substituted.
 MR. WILLIAMS  said, he would bow to the decision of the Chair, but he wished to know why the price of rations had been
 444 d. d.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that this Estimate would bring the amount of the Votes for military purposes during the ensuing year up to very nearly 40,000,000 l. l. l. l.>
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that the difficulties which had arisen in connection with the transport of provisions and stores to the East were not so much in the part of the journey by sea as in that from Balaklava to the camp. The transport by sea was under the superintendence of the Admiralty, who had just established a Transport Board for the management of this service, and for facilitating its satisfactory conduct. He thought that a great deal of the confusion complained of in the loading, despatch, and unloading of the sea transports had arisen from their cargoes being contributed by various branches of the Government. Matters would be very much simplified by the loading of each ship being exclusively under one department,
 447
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that in moving the estimate for the Commissariat Service for the year 1855–56 it would not be necessary for him to detain the Committee for more than a few moments, but some explanation would be expected from him with regard to these Estimates, because the total amount of this Vote, although inconsiderable as compared with the large sums which had recently been under the consideration of the Committee, showed a large increase upon the sum voted the preceding year. The amount voted for Commissariat service last year was 600,000 l.; l. l. 439 l. d. d., d. d. d., l. l., l. 440 l., l. l. l. 441 l. i. s. d. s., d. l. 442 l.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he had not been over-sanguine as to the results of the appointment of the Committee upstairs, but he had hoped that hon. Members would wait until they made their Report. He heard garbled statements of the evidence made day after day to the House. Now, would it not be far better to wait until the Committee had reported the evidence? The Committee were examining with great care into the subject, and he hoped that the House would have confidence in their Committee.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : It is quite true that the despatch which led to those Bills was written two years ago, but let us see if there is any real foundation for the charge of delay brought against the Colonial Office. Three Bills were passed—one relating to Victoria, another to New
 432 433
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I do not think, Sir, the question raised by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich is whether an indispensable necessity existed for my noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) to accept the seals of the Colonial Department while he was on his way to act as the Plenipotentiary of this country at Vienna; nor do I think that a question is raised on the present occasion as to the permanent union of the Colonial Office with another great department of State, but the question is whether such a degree of public inconvenience arises from the arrangement made for the conduct of the business of the Colonial Department, during the temporary absence of my noble Friend at Vienna, as to call for the interference of
 429 430 431
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he observed that 600,000 l. l. l. 446 l.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he begged to ask if the hon. Gentleman would produce the papers to which he had on a former occasion referred as to the extent of additional barrack accommodation required? The Votes which the Government proposed for this purpose were large, Aldershot alone amounting altogether to 475,000 l., l.
 SIR JAMES ANDERSON  said, he thought the people of Scotland had great and just reason to complain of the manner in which their country had been treated as to its survey.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to explain that he had not stated that the Bills were passed two years ago, but what he said was, that the arrangements which had been made two years ago had led to these Bills.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I wish, Sir, to take this opportunity of calling the attention of the House to the present extraordinary state of the Colonial Department; and, in doing so, not only do I wish to address inquiries to Her Majesty's Government on the subject, but to call their attention to a state of the public business as connected with that department which
 420 421 422 423 424
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he hoped he might be allowed to express his regret, that the hon. Gentleman did not hear more distinctly what he had said upon this subject. The hon. Member had entirely misunderstood not only his intentions, but the expressions which he had written. When the proper time arrived, he hoped he would be able to give a clear version of his acts as Colonial Minister, which could not under any circumstances warrant the construction put upon them by the hon. Member.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH,  in reply, said, that the Board of Works did not possess any funds with which to execute the metropolitan improvements recommended by the Select Committee of last
 408
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, that suspicions, complaints, and fearful results, had already followed the system of accepting the lowest tender. He particularly alluded to the intrenching tools, which, from the time of the Peninsular war until now, were always singularly bad. The same might be said of the shoes and clothing supplied on that principle. We had been too much swayed by a false economy in these matters, forgetting that everything depended on the quality of the articles supplied. This question of supplies was not to be disposed of by a few phrases about contracts or no contracts. He wished to corroborate what had fallen from the hon. Member for Wick with regard to the importance of vegetables in checking scurvy. When he was at the Poor Law Board, during the failure of the potato crops, it was found that farinaceous food, even with fresh meat, without a supply of vegetables, produced scurvy in some of the workhouses, and that was no question of salt meat. So that even if preserved fresh meats were supplied to the troops, care should be taken to keep up the supply of vegetables.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I
 425 426
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Nothing further shall be done until further arrangements are effected.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, with respect to the matter now before the House concerning the Ordnance survey, it seemed to him involved in very considerable doubt. He was informed that experiments were going forward in Ayrshire and in Dumfriesshire with regard to the large scale. These experiments were only to be made to a limited extent, and would be concluded in the month of July. He should think that no portion of the money now voted would be necessary for that purpose. The whole sum voted would not be sufficient for the execution of the map on the one-inch scale, and he should suggest to the House that it should be clearly understood that nothing more should be done regarding the large scale than completing the experiment which was now going forward, and which would be, as he had already stated, finished in July. The House could then consider and decide what course it would adopt.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he had made inquiries on the subject of the question of the hon. Gentleman, and he was informed that it was not the practice in the departments of the Admiralty, Ordnance, Board of Works, Post Office, or Custom House, to stop a day's pay of the workmen on any fast day.
 MR. PEEL  said, it was not intended to increase the rates at which the medical men connected with the army in the East were paid. It was true that their daily pay was not so large as that of the civilian medical officers who had been sent out; but it should be recollected that, on the other hand, the army surgeons, when they ceased to be actively employed, received half-pay, which was a privilege that the civil medical men now employed would not have.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, that while he was gratified at hearing the right hon. Gentleman's statement with reference to the improving prospects of Ireland, there was something not quite satisfactory to Irish Members in his speech, for he admitted that evils did exist, but suggested no remedy. A more unsatisfactory speech, dealing in generalities, and calculated, if possible, to delude Irish Members with "soft sawder," he never listened to. Government should take their share of the expense, and double the salaries of schoolmasters in the workhouses, and so improve that education which was deficient. He (Mr. Fitzgerald) the other day was in an Irish workhouse, where a number of boys
 530
 MR. O'BRIEN  observed, that allusion had been made to the religious element in Ireland, which it was said prevented the proper education of the poor. He would call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to the constitution of Irish magistracies in the different counties. At present the magistrates were  ex officio
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that when the Civil Estimates came on he should call attention to the injustice done in Ireland, and show that England received much more of the public money. It should not be forgotten that there was the building of that House of Parliament. (Oh, oh!) Yes, for that expenditure, being derived from the taxes, was partly drawn from Ireland, and all laid out here. The Irish people had now to pay the income tax; and he must say, they paid more money than they received benefit from their connection with this country.
 MR. CROGAN  had never heard in that House any observations which in his opinion were more extraordinary than those which had just fallen from the noble Lord opposite. The noble Lord seemed to forget that at the time of the Union it was guaranteed that Ireland should pay only 2–17ths of the taxation of the United Kingdom, and that by the terms of that Act a greater equality ought to be observed between the taxation of the two countries than the figures quoted by the noble Lord manifested.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, he viewed with regret the renewal of the Motion now brought upon the attention of the House. To pass the measure into law would, in his opinion, unhinge society. He was well aware of the deductions drawn by its supporters from the practice, law, and opinions of other countries, but he could not believe that the introduction of the code of morality of other countries would conduce to the happiness, the sweet confidence, and the sanctity of that which we in England called by the word "home." He held that this Bill, if carried, would produce the greatest social miseries. He believed the Word of God was against such marriages, and that with the abolition of polygamy, the new system of equality was
established between the sexes. He should therefore oppose the Bill.
 MR. BOUVERIE  proposed to the House to adjourn the consideration of this Bill till Thursday next, in consequence of the absence of the hon. Baronet the Member for South Devon (Sir J. Y. Buller), who had charge of the Bill. The Bill was brought in at the instance of Sir Lawrence Palk and his son, who had large estates in the neighbourhood of Torquay, and who
 485 l.
 MR. LESLIE  begged to put the following question to the Under Secretary for War—that as medical men, civilians, were now being sent out by the Government at fabulous salaries, he begged to ask—
 MR. LESLIE  then begged to ask whether it was the intention of the Government to raise the salaries of the army surgeons that are now employed in the army in the East, and hospitals at Scutari?
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Gentleman in putting a question must not state an opinion, or use such words as "fabulous" salaries, and those words must be struck out of the question.
 MR. ROCHE  said, he must express his dissent from one opinion of his right hon. Friend, namely, that there was no means of separating the youthful paupers from adults, and that the latter were among the most dissolute of the population, for he (Mr. Roche) had himself had experience to the contrary. He also did not wish it to he supposed that the poor law in Ireland was merely an experiment, but he hoped it would be as permanent as the National Board of Education, which had been productive of so much benefit to Ireland. He was sorry to say, that the physical position of the people was below the standard of the education that was open to them; but he did not wish to mix up the question of national education with that of poor law management; when it was admitted by the Government that there was a remedy for many of the evils complained of by bringing up youthful paupers under a system of industrial education, the Government ought not to leave the promotion of that education only to the guardians, and if a grant was applied for for this purpose it ought not to be refused. The guardians ought not in this respect to be substituted for the Government, when the latter had assented to the necessity for a remedy, when it was found that what was asked for that purpose was right in principle.
 MR. E. BALL  supported the introduction of the measure, on the ground that what was not expressly prohibited in God's Word must be taken to be permitted, and in no case did he find any prohibition with respect to the marriage of a man with his deceased wife's sister. His hon. and learned Friend below him (Sir F. Thesiger) had entirely failed to show any such prohibition; and, looking at the question in a moral and religious view, he (Mr. Ball) saw no objection to the introduction of the present measure. Indeed, to justify the principle affirmed by this Motion, he could cite a mass of the highest authorities in the Church of England, persons whose lives corresponded with the doctrines they taught, and whose views on this question were in accordance with the views of those who advocated the removal of the present restrictions. Among those names were those of Archbishop Whately, the Bishop of Norwich, the Bishop of St. David's, the Bishop of Lincoln, the late Bishop of Landaff, and he might go on naming a long list of illustrious divines and holy men who had concurred in those views. Then, again, among those who were revered by the great body of Dissenters, and who were favourable to the adoption of a measure like the present, the name of Dr. Chalmers stood pre-eminently forward.
 504 505
 MR. HORSMAN  explained that he did not say that the poor law system in Ireland was an experiment, but that the system of industrial education in workhouses was. Nor did he go to the length of saying that all the adult paupers in workhouses were the most dissolute of the population.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he agreed with both the hon. Gentlemen who had spoken, that no Motion could have been brought
 526 527 528 529
 MR. FRENCH  thought, that if the Government considered such a Bill necessary they ought to introduce and to carry it themselves, instead of leaving it to a private Member.
 MR. FRENCH  hoped the hon. Member for Carlow would not hesitate to press his
 532
 MR. F. SCULLY  considered that as the sum of 35,000 l. 531
 SIR F. THESIGER  said, he should oppose at the very threshold the introduction of this Bill. The question was not a new one; it had been fully discussed on several previous occasions, and the whole merits consisted in the principle involved. He was in hopes that the last experiment which was made in this direction would have discouraged any further attempt in favour of the alteration of the law now proposed. In 1851, a measure similar in its character to the present was brought forward in the House of Lords; and, notwithstanding that it was supported in a speech of great power and ability by Lord St. Germans, after considerable discussion, only sixteen Peers could be found to vote in its favour. He therefore was surprised and deeply regretted that the hon. Member should have thought fit again to agitate a matter which undoubtedly stirred the feelings and prejudices of a large class of Her Majesty's subjects, for he was satisfied that, even if he should succeed in obtaining for his proposal a temporary success, there was no chance of the measure being carried successfully through its further stages; and it was most undesirable to agitate a question of this kind when the only result of that agitation would be ultimate failure. The hon. Member had adduced no new argument on the question, and the matter remained precisely as it was when it was brought forward in that House in 1850. All the facts were to be found in the report of the Commission of 1848. The hon. Member had said there was now a general feeling in favour of the measure, and that he had presented petitions from several clergymen who were advocates for it. He had also stated that the great majority of Roman Catholic and Dissenting ministers did not oppose an alteration of the law in this respect, and that the ladies were advocates for it, and particularly anxious that the men should in this matter have the fullest opportunity of pleasing themselves. He fully admitted that this was a woman's question, and he thought that the opinions of the women of England ought not to be disregarded in legislation with respect to it; but his (Sir F. Thesiger's) experience certainly did not bear out the views of the hon. Gentleman; for so far as his experience went, he believed that the opinion of the women of England was directly opposite to that stated by the hon. Member, and wherever he had had an opportunity of testing their feelings upon the subject,
 494 495 496 497 498 499 semipaternal 500 501
 MR. HADFIELD  thought the Bill so objectionable, that he should press the House to a division. divided adjourned Thursday.
 MR. HADFIELD  seconded the Amendment, and said he had lodged a petition in the Bill Office against the Bill, signed by 5,000 of the inhabitants of Torquay.
 MR. G. H. MOORE  said, the hon. and learned Member for Dundalk (Mr. Bowyer) had observed that this was a Catholic question and a Catholic grievance. Now, he begged to state, in the name of his Catholic fellow-countrymen, that throughout Ireland there existed among the whole Catholic population, high and low, rich and poor, clergy and laity, the deepest horror and scorn for the proposition made to the House to-night.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, that the object of the hon. Member who had just sat down was, as he (Mr. Drummond) heard him, to inculcate and promote private morality; and he set about his task by advising the House to set the law of God at defiance. The hon. Gentleman went on to say that there was a vast majority of the people in favour of his views. So that the question of settling an important principle was to be decided by counting noses. This was not an argument usually employed; for every single sect, however small, was in the habit of saying to itself, "Fear not, little flock; it is thy Father's good pleasure to give thee the kingdom;" and except from the hon. Gentleman, he had never heard that the multitude of those who agreed to it was to be taken as the
 513 papa potest legem Dei mutare. vitia virtutes virtutes vitia. 514
 MR. DRUMMOND : That is all perfectly true, and the very next year it was altered in this way— papa non potest legem Dei mutare nisi cum causa.
 MR. HEYWOOD  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the law as to marriage with a deceased wife's sister or a deceased wife's niece. The hon. Member said that he had presented six petitions signed by clergymen of the Church of England, resident in and near the metropolis, who ought to be good judges on the subject, praying for an alteration in the law of marriage, which prohibited a widower from marrying his deceased wife's sister. He believed that if the statute of 32 Henry VIII., which dealt with the question of prohibited degrees, were to be recognised by the Judges as determining tile law, these marriages would be considered perfectly legal. In 1835, a great alteration was made in the law, when an Act passed the Legislature whereby it was declared that all such marriages as had up to that time taken place in the prohibited degrees of affinity should be deemed valid; but that all marriages contracted after the passing of that Act between persons standing in similar relationship, should be deem-
 487 488 l. bonâ fide 489 "In all the countries of civilised Europe, where the law of the land offers no impediment, marriages of widowers with their deceased wives' sisters very frequently take place. From the experience which I myself have had during the twenty years that I held the office of Chief Rabbi in Oldenburg and Hanover, I can affirm that the marriages in question were frequent, and that they have almost invariably proved happy. Even here in England, prior to the passing of the marriage Act of the 5&6  Will. "Public opinion in the country of Weimar, and in the whole of Thuringia, regards such a marriage as unobjectionable, and only aims at abolishing the necessity of asking permission for each individual case, and at the introduction of perfect liberty in reference to such matters. That the same may be obtained in England, the land of liberty and of order based upon a respect for the laws, is my sincere wish." 490 "Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States, August 4, 1842. "Dear Sir—There is not the slightest doubt, and never to my knowledge has been, in Massachusetts, that the marriage of a man with the sister of his deceased wife is perfectly lawful, and valid, and scriptural; indeed such marriages are very common among us, and among all sects of Christians. "I recollect, at this moment, two between Episcopalians within the circle of my acquaintance, and I mention these only as it has been supposed to be against the canon law of the Church of England to allow such a marriage. By many persons connections of this sort are deemed the most desirable, especially where there are children of the first marriage. The same rule prevails (as I believe) in all the New England States, and in by far the greatest number of the other States of the Union. I do not now recollect but a single exception, that of Virginia. "Many years ago, I had occasion to consider this very question, as one of professional curiosity and learning. I was then of opinion and still continue to be, that there is not the slightest foundation for any such prohibition in the Scriptures; and that wherever it exists it has its foundation in some positive municipal law, or in the canon law as promulgated by the Romish Church and thence transferred into the canon law the English Church.….. Many persons are of opinion that the whole doctrine had no better or higher origin than in the practice of the Romish Church to grant dispensations in such cases. Of the correctness of this opinion I do not pretend to judge; for I have never deemed it a matter of the slightest importance; so offensive would any such prohibition be deemed in Massachusetts, that I am satisfied that if our Legislature were to attempt to introduce it, it would be met with universal indignation, and,  a fortiori, "I well remember to have had a long conversation with my lamented friend Judge Livingston on his very subject near the close of his life, in which he maintained the same opinion with great earnestness and ability.—Believe me, with the highest respect, yours truly, "JOSEPH STORY." 491 "I have read over the 18th chapter of Leviticus in Hebrew, with a view to discover the true meaning of the words which you desire me to interpret; and I have examined all the passages that I could find, in the historical and prophetical parts of Scripture, in which the same expression occurs. The phrase of 'uncovering the nakedness' is literally translated from the Hebrew. It is surprising that the chapter before us should ever have been taken for the law of marriage, since it is apparent that all the laws contained in that chapter relate only to the impure lusts and obscene rites of the Egyptians and Canaanites, to the abominable customs and ordinances, as they are called, of the idolatrous nations, who were extirpated by the chosen people. These doings are enumerated with a special law against each of them; and, lastly, the general command is resumed—' Defile not yourselves in these things, for in all these things are the nations defiled which I cast out before you.' "Mr. Fry, the author of a pamphlet, which you justly commend, makes an observation, which I think decisive, that the phrase of 'concealing' the nakedness, not of 'exposing' it, is constantly used in Scripture for the nuptial rite. I turned to the passage in Ezekiel, where that vehement poet, or rather orator, is describing the covenant with the Jewish nation, which covenant is very often, we know, expressed by the allegory of a marriage. His words are—' Thy season was the season of love; I spread the border of my mantle over thee, and covered thy nakedness;' that is, I married thee. What is conclusive evidence, if this be not? And if this interpretation of Leviticus be just, what will become of the canons and rubrics on the Levitical degrees?" 492 v. "I am tempted to take this opportunity of observing, that a large portion of that legal opinion which has passed current for law, falls within the description of 'law taken for granted.' If a statistical table of legal propositions should be drawn out, and the first column headed 'Law by Statute,' and the second' Law by Decision,' a third column, under the heading of 'Law taken for granted,' would comprise as much matter as both the others combined. But when, in the pursuit of truth, we are obliged to investigate the grounds of the law, it is plain, and has often been proved by recent experience, that the mere statement and restatement of a doctrine—the mere repetition of the 'cantilena' of lawyers—cannot make it law, unless it can be traced to some competent authority, and if it be irreconcilable to some clear legal principle."
 MR. WILSON  said, that the county court judges were not paid out of the Consolidated Fund, but by fees derived from the courts in which they presided. divided;
 MR. J. BALL  said, in answer to the appeal which had been made to him, that he did not wish to press hardly upon his right hon. Friend the Chief Secretary, who had so lately come into office; but there was a demand of justice in this matter; no reason had been suggested for treating Ireland differently from England and Scotland, and he could not, therefore, withdraw the Motion.
 MR. J. BALL  rose to submit the Resolution of which he had given notice to the House, "That it is expedient that more effectual means should be adopted to improve the Education of Pauper Children in Ireland." The hon. and learned Gentleman said that, although the subject which he had to bring under the notice of the House might not be so interesting as that which had just engaged its attention,
 520 521 l., l. s. d. 522 523 l l., l. 524 s. l., l. l., l. 525
 MR. J. BALL  begged to remind the hon. Member (Mr. Drummond) that the quotation he had made in support of the power of the Pope came from that eminent writer Cardinal Bellarmine, and that when it was sought to canonise that individual the very test which the hon. Member quoted was produced against him as erroneous doctrine, and on the ground of that text the canonisation was refused.
 MR. HENLEY  would not oppose the bringing in of the Bill, but he reserved to himself the power of opposing it in any future stage. At present he did not see any advantage likely to arise from the Bill, for he thought it a very good thing
 533
 MR. COBDEN  said, he had heard this subject discussed very often in the House, and it appeared to him that the weight of argument was conclusively, and almost exclusively, on one side. But to-night he thought that the opponents of the measure had allowed their case to go by default altogether, because the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Sir F. Thesiger) gave up the only strong ground on which the law had been defended on former occasions —namely, the 18th of Leviticus. But in 1850 the hon. and learned Gentleman and others relied almost exclusively on that authority, and in abandoning it, therefore, the opposition to this Bill had lost ground to-night immeasurably. He did not understand the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) to say, as the right hon. Gentleman seemed to understand him, that because this law was disregarded out of doors, it ought to be repealed. What he understood the noble Lord to mean was that public opinion did not support the law, because those who infringed it retained their status in society. Public opinion sanctioned the evasion—for it was not the violation—of the law, and therefore it must be inferred that they considered there was nothing immoral in these marriages. He
 518
 MR. M. MILNES  said, he did not certainly expect, when he heard his hon. and learned Friend opposite (Sir F. Thesiger) give so large and interesting a discourse upon this matter, to hear him complain of its having been brought forward on a previous occasion. He (Mr. Milnes) was of opinion, that if the House required information on the subject, his hon. Friend behind him had done well in bringing forward this Motion. He looked upon this question as one of vital importance to a large proportion of the British people. The greater number of the marriages which had been contracted in spite of the restrictions of the law occurred in the north, and the evils consequent thereupon were gradually on the increase. The frequency of those marriages had been in no degree lessened by the refusal of the Legislature to legalise them, and it really seemed as if the people in favour of these marriages were determined to say to the Legislature, "If you choose to go on imposing this cruel restriction upon us, we will go on breaking the law until you alter it." He entreated hon. Members who opposed this Bill, to ask themselves whether it was not a grave event, when they saw the law deliberately violated, not by men of reckless habits or wild dispositions, but by men of grave and sober thought and deep religious feelings, belonging not to the lower orders of society alone, but to the most respectable and intelligent of the middle and higher classes. Surely it was not wise in the Legislature to allow such a state of the law to continue. The House could not, it was clear, stop these marriages by any
 506
 MR. SPOONER  said, he confessed he rose on this occasion with considerable difficulty to address the House, because he felt himself compelled to differ from many of his friends around him, whose opinions he held in great respect, and to whose judgment he was always willing to submit when he conscientiously could do so. But he had always supported an alteration of this law—not exactly such as was proposed by the hon. Member for North Lancashire, nor upon all the grounds urged by that hon. Member—but such as had been proposed in 1850. He should certainly vote for the first reading of the Bill, without pledging himself to all its details. He was not going to enter into the legal arguments used by the hon. and learned Member who had just addressed the House, but merely to allude to an observation that was made by that hon. and learned Gentleman. It was assumed by that hon. and learned Member—an assumption which he was sure the Member for North Lancashire would not admit—that the great majority of the country was against him, and that he was merely advocating the cause of the minority. The hon. and learned Gentleman said, what misery would they inflict upon families—what social intercourse would be broken up by effecting such a
 509
 MR. SPOONER  said, he was sorry that his right hon. Friend had not turned his attention to the subject. and informed himself upon the point. Our Saviour says— "It was not so from the beginning, but Moses, from the hardness of your hearts, suffered it to be."
 MR. SPOONER  denied that it applied only to divorce. In the Book of Deuteronomy there were instructions to the husband who had married two wives as to how he was to conduct himself towards them—that he was not to show favour to the one and neglect to the other. And it goes further to show how the inheritance was to be disposed of between the families arising from the two marriages. In the face of such facts, to tell him (Mr. Spooner) that polygamy was not allowed, proved that his right hon. Friend bail not looked well into the subject. The House could not, therefore, put the construction upon the text—that it was directed against polygamy. He contended that no other construction could be put upon it than that after the decease of the wife the husband might take in marriage her sister. What did Archbishop Whately say upon the point? He said this—
 "As no real and strong case has been made out of the important advantage to the public arising from such restriction, I take my stand upon the broad ground, and the general principle, that every restriction of the kind is an evil in itself, The proof lay with the advocates for restriction to show its necessity." 511 512
 MR. WALPOLE : I protest against the assertion of the noble Lord—this is the first time that I ever heard of a person—especially of a person in the noble Viscount's position—express the opinion that an Act of Parliament can determine what is the law of God,
 MR. WALPOLE : that applies only to divorce exclusively.
 MR. WALPOLE : It was not allowed.
 MR. WALPOLE : Then, understanding now what the noble Viscount says, will he allow me to set him right on the second point—with reference to what the Act of Parliament intended to do? The Act of Parliament made no declaration of the kind. It simply said that the marriages that had been contracted should not be avoided in the parties' lifetime; in other words, all it said was, that such marriages should be placed on the same footing that marriages celebrated before that Act were placed on, if either of the parties were dead. That is exactly what the Act did, and it did it for this purpose—conceiving that there had, up to that time, been a difference of opinion as to the execution of the law, it said that children should not be illegitimatised in consequence of those marriages, when the Legislature itself was, for the first time, dealing with the question in that particular point of view. It had been always considered and stated by the highest authorities of the law in the other House of Parliament that, instead of the Act recognising what the law of God was in this particular, it left it open to the ecclesiastical courts of this country to punish the parties by ecclesiastical censures with reference to such marriages, although it legitimatised the
 516 Nil prosunt leges sine moribus; 517
 MR. WALPOLE  recommended the hon. Member to consider how far it was possible that the exclusion of Members who held certain offices should be provided for.
 MR. HANKEY  seconded the Motion. "That leave be given to bring in a Bill to amend the Law as to Marriage with a deceased wife's sister or a deceased wife's niece."
 MR. KENNEDY  said, he must complain of the inadequate salaries given to the teachers in the national schools. There were in Ireland 5,383 male and female teachers; the salaries of male teachers varied in amount according to the class in which they were placed, from 11 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.,
 MR. WRIGHTSON  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to alter and amend the Act 6th of Anne, c. 7, so far as related to the vacating of seats in Parliament on the acceptance of office. This Bill, which consisted of only one clause, had for its object to provide for those cases in which a Minister merely changed the office he held. He did not anticipate that any disposition existed to oppose the Bill in its present stage, and he therefore trusted the House would give him leave to introduce it.
 MR. BOWYER  seconded the Motion.
 MR. BOWYER  explained that he had not asserted that the question of the validity of these marriages came within the jurisdiction of a temporal court. He was aware that such matters were exclusively confined to the spiritual courts; but what he did say was, the question of the legality of the marriage might come before a temporal court in trying the question of the legitimacy of the issue.
 MR. BOWYER  said, that it might be useful for the full consideration of this important question to revert to what was the law on the subject at, and before, the time of the Reformation. It was quite clear that these marriages with the wife's sister were not void, and never were void, at common law. They were only voidable as contrary to the ecclesiastical law, and in the ecclesiastical courts, and not in the temporal courts. If the question of the legitimacy of a person, the issue of one of these marriages had been raised in a temporal court—in an action of ejectment for instance, the temporal court would have affirmed the validity of the marriage. Before the Reformation the ecclesiastical law allowed such marriages to take place by dispensation of the ecclesiastical authorities; but at the Reformation the authority of the Holy See was put an end to, and with the exception of a power reserved to the Archbishop of Canterbury, to grant certain dispensations, the power of dispensation was wholly abolished. The result was, that the lawful celebration of these marriages came to an end; they were, however, allowed by the Church of Rome, and their lawfulness was admitted, even by the Anglican Church, for they had been discontinued, simply because the dispensing power had ceased. It was quite clear, then, that there was no authority in law in favour of this absolute prohibition, because the practice of the Church from the earliest time showed that though the Church did
 502 503
 SIR J. SHELLEY  said, that church accommodation was greatly needed at Torquay, and supported the Motion for the adjournment of the debate.
 SIR J. WALMSLEY  said, that some days since he presented a petition, praying that the fast day might be postponed from the 21st instant to the 6th of April, in consequence of the severe distress existing among working people in the metropolis and other places; but as no attention had been paid to it, he begged to ask whether the practice of withholding on fast days and holidays a day's pay from all persons in the employment of Government who are paid by daily wages was to be adopted on the fast day appointed fur the 21st of March; and, if so, whether it was the intention of the Government to stop a day's pay from the salaries of all official men, or only from the wages of persons holding inferior situations.
 MR. R. J. PHILLIMORE  expressed his readiness to assent to the discussion being adjourned to Thursday, out of courtesy to the hon. Baronet the Member for South Devon.
 MR. R. J. PHILLIMORE  moved, as an Amendment, that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. His ground for making the Motion was, that although the Bill came before the House as a private Bill, the subject with which it professed to deal was more of a public nature; and, although it professed for its object to provide church accommodation in Torquay, the first nine clauses were precisely the same as those of the Public Church Building Acts, and where the other clauses differed from those Acts they were intended to override those Acts. The patronage it conferred upon Sir Lawrence Palk and his heirs was most objectionable, for in return for their giving a stipend to the incumbents of the churches, which might be unlimited in number, they were to be the patrons of the churches, and the subscribers were to have no voice in it. Another provision enabled the levying of church rates in respect of every church erected—and, as he had stated, they might be unlimited in number—and another provided that the expenses of obtaining the Act should be provided for by mortgaging the pew-rents. He thought it a most unnecessary and objectionable Bill.
 MR. R. PHILLIMORE  said, he had no wish to enter upon the religions or theological part of the question; but he rose simply to protest against the doctrine which had been laid down by the hon. and learned Member for Dundalk (Mr. Bowyer) that, previous to the Reformation and the reign of Henry VIII., the common law of England knew nothing of the illegality of these marriages. He said, indeed, that they were only dealt with by the ecclesiastical courts; but nobody knew better than the hon. and learned Gentleman, that the answer to his argument was this, that the common law of the land fully recognised the authority of the ecclesiastical courts, and left such matters to their judgment and authority. The hon. and learned Member might as well have argued that the common law of this country knew nothing of equity, because there was a separate jurisdiction to take cognizance of equity cases. The hon. and learned Member also pressed the question on the House as a Roman Catholic grievance, and said it was a hard case to prohibit these marriages, because the Pope could grant a dispensation to enable a man to marry his brother's wife, while Parliament stepped in and declared such a marriage illegal.
 507 508 status
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I did not say that an Act of Parliament can determine what is the law of God. What I said was, that it was clear that Parliament did not conceive it to be a question of the law of God.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I wish to state that, having paid great attention to this debate, I shall certainly give my vote in favour of the introduction of the measure. I think that this is not a question of the law of God. I hold that Parliament settled that question by the Act of 1835; for of course it can never be supposed that Parliament would have legalised all marriages which up to that period had been proscribed, if Parliament had been of opinion that there was such a fundamental objection to those marriages. It certainly appears to me that this case is one to which you may apply the quotation,  Nil prosunt leges sine moribus 515
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that hon. Members from Ireland ought to pause before they insisted upon being placed on an equality with England in these matters. If the question were to be placed upon the footing of equal justice between the two countries, he should feel it his duty to state how the case really stood. There was paid from the public revenue for the Irish constabulary, 650,000 l.; l.; l.; l.; l. l.; l.; l.; l. l.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  thought that this subject should be considered in Committee on the Bill.
 MR. TATTON EGERTON  said, that when the proposition for a Commission was first brought before the Committee, his own opinion was adverse to it; and though, after the evidence they received, his views had been much modified he should recommend his hon. Friend to reconsider the whole subject before the bringing up of the Report.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL— who had just entered the House—said, he had been in attendance from an early period of the sitting, and was quite prepared to answer the questions of which the hon. Gentleman had given him notice; but, as it was now near six o'clock, he thought the most convenient course would be for the hon. Gentleman to postpone his questions till Friday.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, that he had been in communication with many persons in trade who knew how to take care of themselves, who had considered the clauses of the Bill, and in only one instance had any objection been taken to it.
 MR. A. STAFFORD  said, he would adopt the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman. Resolutions  agreed to.
 MR. A. STAFFORD  said, be had given notice that on bringing up the Report he would call attention to the medical ar-
 539 l.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that a more objectionable proposal could not be made. In the first place, if it were adopted the House would fall into the error of giving something very like a Government security; in the second place, it would be difficult to appoint an actuary, seeing that no two actuaries could be found to agree; and, lastly, no actuary could prevent those frauds in the management of these societies, which formed the chief subject of complaint.
 MR. WILSON  said, it was a matter of some consequence that the Report of the Committee of Supply should he received, in order that the Government might be enabled to complete their financial arrangements, and he would suggest that the hon. Gentleman should postpone his questions until Friday, when he would have an opportunity of putting them early in the evening, on the Motion for the adjournment of the House.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he agreed with the promoter of the Bill, thinking it an advantage that these societies should not be
 538
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he had not been in time to present several petitions in favour of the Bill, but he would mention that one of them was signed by 1,700 respectable heads of families, and others connected with Friendly Societies in Manchester; and he was authorised to say that all the persons interested in those societies in Manchester were quite satisfied with the Bill.
 MR. BONHAM-CARTER  said, that the Committee followed the precedent of former Acts in framing the clause.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he would suggest an alteration of the clause. As the clause stood the person who committed a fraud would be able to compromise his crime by a double payment, and perhaps something in addition. There could be no greater offence than that of a person cheating a society by fraudulently representing himself as a nominee or executor, and he should not have it in his power to compromise that offence by a money payment.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the clause now under discussion involved a very serious principle, which should be well considered. In the first place he doubted as to the wisdom of an unpaid Commission. What was the Commission to be appointed to do? The Committee which had sat upon the subject had described the powers proposed to be entrusted to the Commission as very extensive. It was his opinion that it would be best not to agree to these clauses at present. What were the reasons which rendered the appointment of a Commission requisite? He objected to anything having the aspect of a Government sanction to the friendly society tables. It was said that if Mr. Tidd Pratt died no one would know anything of the thousands of friendly societies in the country. There was, however, in the Bill no provision for any species of record of its proceedings. Practically the whole business of the Commission would fall into the hands of the secretary as in the instance of the Ecclesiastical Commission. He disbelieved in the necessity for any such central authority at all, and he hoped the clauses in question would be withdrawn for further consideration.
 MR. BAINES  said, he very much doubted the practicability of securing unpaid Commissioners sufficiently qualified and able to devote their time to the business to be discharged under this Bill. Nor was he quite sure of the urgent necessity for the measure, seeing how admirably the magistrates of this country performed their duties as referees or arbitrators under the Friendly Societies Act. Supposing, however, good Commissioners to be secured, he considered that it would be of the greatest importance to enable parties belonging to these societies to obtain their advice. Still there ought to be no indemnity to persons who acted on their advice, if it turned out to be wrong in law and the acting upon it had injured the property of third parties. The Commissioners themselves could not, of course, be sued; and it would be against the policy of the law to allow a wrong to be committed without a remedy, or to empower parties to dispense with the law. He believed that upon the whole the Bill was a wise and liberal measure, and was capable of being made useful and practicable, and that it would prove very valuable and beneficial.
 MR. BAINES  said, he thought it would be desirable to have the money that was fraudulently obtained from the society returned, At the same time the criminal offence should be punished more severely. The clause was important, and he would suggest to his hon. Friend to consider the clause with a view of framing it anew.
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  said, he would suggest that another registrar should be associated with Mr. Tidd Pratt.
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  said, that as no discussion had taken place on the first and second reading of the Bill, and as there was some remarkable points in it, he wished to know whether any Member of the Government had paid any attention to the Bill. As far as the consolidation of the Statutes relating to Friendly Societies he had no objection to it, though he thought it was hardly necessary, and he could not approve of some of the novelties introduced by this Bill. There was a clause giving a power to appoint an unpaid Commission, which was to advise members of Friendly Societies; but then that advice was to have the force of law, and to override the decisions of the Courts, which was a very extraordinary provision. Many of these societies had made prospective engagements for the payment of annuities, and giving relief in old age, to receive which large payments had been made by members; but when they came to demand the benefits they had paid for, they found that the societies were broken up, and there were no funds to pay the claimants, who, consequently, suffered grievous injury. It was found by experience that few of these societies lasted longer than about thirty years, and that fact was fortified by the opinions of Mr. Neilson, Mr. Scratchley, and Mr. Tidd Pratt, who declared that the duration of these societies was of necessity limited. He (Mr. Scrope)
 534
 MR. SOTHERON  said, he should assent to this suggestion, and withdraw the clauses that touched on this matter; but there had been great misconception as to the functions of the Commission.
 MR. SOTHERON  said, the object of this clause was to allow societies, instead of going to a public house, or hiring a place for their meetings, to possess a building for themselves, and, if they could not get one ready made, that they might erect one for themselves. He did not think it desirable to allow these societies to hold land for other purposes, or to invest their money in real property.
 MR. SOTHERON  said, he proposed to strike out some words which might be considered objectionable. There were between 22,000 and 23,000 of these societies, and it would be very advantageous that there should be some central authority to refer to on questions relating to the alteration of rules, and other questions which continually arose. A large portion of these societies supposed that when they got the registration they had the sanction of the Government to their rules and tables. A greater delusion could not exist. Select Committees had recommended the formation of a board. He thought that two or three years after the board had been constituted, if it were found to work well, the House ought to be asked to make them some payment.
 MR. SOTHERON  said, that in all the Acts previous to the last one the sums had stood at the higher amounts, and although they were reduced by the last Act to 30 l. l., l.
 MR. BARROW  said, he objected to the Commission because he disliked the system of centralisation, and he believed the people of this country were becoming of opinion that it was well to leave local matters of detail to local self-government. Moreover, it appeared to him monstrous that any body of Commissioners should have the power, without any discussion in open
 536
 MR. BARROW  said, he would beg to move that the limit of 50 l. l., l, l. l.
 MR. MICHELL  said, he would suggest to the hon. Member (Mr. Sotheron) to propose on the bringing up of the Report the appointment of an official actuary as well as a registrar.
 MR. MICHELL  said, he considered that this and the two following clauses were objectionable. There was to be a board, the Members of which were not to receive any salary or fee, and would therefore be irresponsible. This board would override the Registrar who had a salary of 1,000 l.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he could 535
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the Bill was, in the first place, intended to consolidate the law of Friendly Societies, which was a very useful object. Great care had been taken in the preparation of the Bill, and it was not before the House for the first time, but was read a second time last Session, and referred to a Select Committee; and he believed the Bill was now the same as it was when it came out of that Select Committee. There were some of the clauses, especially that relating to the Imperial Commission, which required consideration; but he thought the provisions would be much better discussed in Committee.
 SIR JOHN BULLER  said, he considered that it was very desirable that Torquay should have additional church accommodation, which could only be obtained by such a measure as the present. It was a place with a large and increasing population, and some time ago a proprietary chapel and a new church at Upton were erected, for which latter Sir Lawrence Palk gave the site and a stipend of 150 l. 562
 THE MARQUESS OF BLANDFORD  said, he should support the Bill, as being a measure promotive of religion in a district
 563
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he must admit that it was desirable there should be additional church accommodation at Torquay and its neighbourhood, but it appeared to him that the 16th clause of this Bill would have the effect of increasing the church rates. It was not prudent that, while on the one hand, they were anxious to put an end to that vexed question, they should, on the other hand, pass a Bill that would have the effect of not only continuing, but increasing, that objectionable impost. If the 16th clause were taken out of the Bill, he was not prepared to oppose considering the Bill in Committee; but, unless that were done, he should vote against the second reading of the Bill.
 SIR JOHN BULLER  said, he could inform the noble Lord and the House, that he had had a communication with the agents of the Bill, and that there would be no objection to withdraw the 16th clause in Committee.
 MR. LOCKE KING :  * 565 566 567 568 "In the year 1826, the owner of landed property to the amount of 15,000 l., l., "Some short time ago, two bachelor brothers died intestate, at a very advanced age, within twenty hours of each other, leaving real estate to the amount of 1,000 l. l., "William Collins, of Walton-on-Thames, seventy-threee years of age, the bulk of whose property is in land, has always been looked up to by his neighbours as a person well informed in matters relating to property. Being taken
 569 "J. N., plumber and glazier, married the daughter of a respectable farmer, who gave her several hundred pounds, No settlement was made, and some time after the marriage the husband laid out the whole of this money in the purchase of a piece of land. He subsequently died intestate, and without children. The land went to the heir-at-law, a nephew, and the widow was left entirely destitute. She is now a menial servant in a farm house." "A. B. was a dealer in provisions, &c.; he had a wife, but no child—they were a most careful and industrious couple, and had amassed besides the stock in trade, furniture, &c. some 2,500 l. l. l. 570 571 "A moment's reflection will show what serious consequences may follow from a neglect on your part, for suppose you purchase an estate with the 50,000 l. "If your personal property undisposed of is not sufficient to pay for the estate, it would be better, perhaps, to direct it to be sold again, and the first purchase money to be paid out of the money produced by the resale." "You must remember, that in devising or suffering an estate to descend which you have purchased and not paid for, your devisee or heir will be entitled to have the purchase-money paid out of your personal property, although you may have given it all to another person. A most vexatious case once happened. A younger brother agreed to purchase an estate from his elder brother; the conveyance was accordingly executed, but the money was not paid. The younger brother then made his will, giving his property to his brother, subject to legacies, and made him executor. The will, however, was not executed so as to pass the estate. The younger brother died, and the elder brother took the estate as his heir, and also paid himself the purchase-money out of the personal property, by which he disappointed the legatees, who lost their legacies, whilst he got both the estate and the purchase-money for it." 572 573 Commentaries 574 575
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, there were some subjects which the House should not let go further, and towards which they should not exhibit any hesitating determination, and one of these was, whether they should admit a Bill to be brought into the House which undoubtedly had for its object, and which unquestionably would have for its result, the altering of some of the most important and established institutions of the country. There was a great distinction between a measure framed with a view to an amendment of the law and a measure which, whatever might be the intentions of its framers, would directly shake the institutions of the country. To all measures calculated to effect an amendment of the law, he trusted that the House would ever afford a ready ear, and an anxious attention; but to a measure for removing the landmarks of some of our valued and most important institutions—for taking away some of the foundation stones of the constitution—to any such measure he hoped the House of Commons would answer, as their ancestors did of old,  Nolumus leges Angliæ mutari. 578 579
 MR. LOCKE KING, in reply, said, that his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General seemed to have prepared his arguments previously to hearing his (Mr. L. King's) speech, for he had made an elaborate defence of primogeniture, which had not been attacked. He was surprised that after his hon. and learned Friend had said he was in favour of the amendment of the law, he should oppose the present Motion.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could not avoid expressing his regret that the hon. Member who had brought this Motion before the House should have adopted the course of stating his views in the form of an abstract Resolution. It was quite competent to the hon. Gentleman, if the House were in Committee of Ways and Means, to bring forward any plan for continuing or extending the probate duty, and had the hon. Gentleman taken that course it would then have been in the power of the House to form a judgment as to the exact nature of the proposition which he submitted to its consideration. But in the present shape of the Motion it became extremely difficult for the House to form any clear judgment as to the plan the hon. Member would wish to have pursued. The hon. Gentleman, according to his speech, appeared to have confounded the legacy and the probate duty, for in many cases he had applied to the probate duty an argument which referred exclusively to the legacy duty, and he had omitted to state the precise nature or the precise object of the distinction between real and personal property upon which the present probate I duty was levied. The system of proving wills had grown out of the jurisdiction of the Ecclesiastical Courts. Those Courts from an early period of our history exercised jurisdiction over the personalty of deceased persons, whether testate or intestate, the jurisdiction, however, from the nature of the Ecclesiastical Courts themselves being limited to personal property only. The law of England did not require that a will devising real property should be proved in an Ecclesiastical Court, which had not by its machinery or plan any means of deciding upon questions affecting the land. The consequence of this state of the law had been that the probate duty had necessarily fallen upon wills affecting personal property. If it were proposed to extend that duty to real property, it would be necessary not only to take the simple course which the hon. Member appeared to indicate, but also to alter the whole law of real property in England, exempting such wills from the jurisdiction of the Ecclesiastical Courts, and further to alter the jurisdiction and powers of those Courts, which now were not applicable to this class of property. That was a difficulty which met them at the very threshold of the question, but if his hon. Friend had, as he had previously observed in
 587 l. 588 589
 MR. ELLIOT  said, that the supporters of Lord Ashley's Bill were taxed with having admitted the principle of the limitation of adult labour, but in fact that principle had been always repudiated by them; and though the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Newdegate) said that it was the  bonâ fide
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he should oppose the Bill, because it would establish a church rate, and would thus effect a local advantage at the expense of a great principle affecting the whole kingdom.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he was very much struck with the inconsistency of the argument which the right hon. Baronet (the Home Secretary) had used on the present occasion, and that which he advanced in opposition to the Motion of his right hon. Friend the Member for South Leicestershire (Sir H. Halford), when he wished to introduce a Bill for the benefit of the working classes connected with the hosiery trade. On that occasion the right hon. Baronet argued that, because that class of labourers was suffering from other causes as well as from the abuses relating to the hours of labour, therefore the evils complained of by his hon. Friend ought to remain unredressed; that because they were suffering from competition they ought also to suffer from unlimited hours of labour. That was the argument by which the right hon. Baronet induced the House to reject the Bill of his hon. Friend, which had for its object the relief of that portion of the working classes. And now, when the
 608
 MR. PACKE  said, he fully agreed with the noble Lord at the head of the Government in thinking that, as the House had delegated the inquiry to a Committee, with power to call for all papers, documents, and records, it would only be fair and straightforward to leave the Committee to conduct the investigation to a close.
 MR. E. BALL  said, he thought that the observations which had just fallen from the hon. Member for Manchester, did not tend in the slightest degree to lessen the force of those facts and those statements which had been put forward by the hon. Member for Oldham. That hon. Member had not come to ask the House for a revival of the law—he had simply come to state that the existing law had not been observed; and in support of that statement he had produced the reports of the inspectors to demonstrate that the law had been violated, while he had also informed the House that no less a number of petitions than 1,083 had been presented to have the law of 1850 fully carried out.
 614 615
 MR. WARNER  said, he must complain that the question had been argued on both sides too much as a question of natural justice. For his part, he regarded it as one of pure expediency. There was not a shadow of reason why the elder son should receive more of his father's estate than his brothers, unless they went back to the law of Moses; but on the other hand, if they insisted on an equal division, they could not stop there. In order to be consistent, they must carry out the principles of socialism, and assert that every man had an equal right to everything, and that property was robbery. He (Mr. Warner) thought the custom of primogeniture was an exceedingly good one. It was a custom which was strongly recommended, both by antiquity and universality, for it had existed from the earliest times, and had prevailed in every part of the world. If, therefore, it was a question between our English custom and the French custom of continued subdivision, he should say by all means let us keep up to our own law, with
 581
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he cordially seconded the Motion, believing that the existing law was in a very unsatisfactory state. He had been under the impression that there was an understanding come to with the late Government that the probate and legacy duties should be extended to real property. It was high time that those hateful distinctions between one class of property and another were done away with. While between 18,000,000 l. l.
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he objected to this tax altogether, and was therefore unwilling to support the inconsistency of extending it to a larger portion of the community. It was a bad tax, and if the hon. Member for Lambeth would move its total repeal he would give him all the assistance in his power.
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, that he should be sorry to throw any damp upon the feelings of gratitude which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had expressed towards the hon. Member for Lambeth, but he must beg to remind him that the latter part of his speech went to show how easily and successfully the existing probate duty upon personal property was evaded, so that if the arguments of the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams) were worth anything, it was that the probate duty upon personal property should be removed rather than extended to real property. The hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Hadfield) had spoken of the inequalities of taxation in this country; but the hon. Gentleman himself had with much candour admitted that personal property was not subjected to a stamp when it changed hands, though real property was. They had been told that a hateful distinction and inequality existed in the taxation of this country, but certainly neither the distinction nor the inequality would be found to be in favour of the landed interest. But there were other burdens beside this to which the land was subjected, and from which personalty was exempt. And, indeed, if personal and real property were placed precisely on the same footing, and made liable to precisely the same duties; if, upon the transfer of personal property, and its mortgage and reconveyance when the mortgage was paid off, it were placed on the same footing as realty, he believed that in a pecuniary sense personalty would have nothing to gain. He contended, moreover, that it was most in harmony with the spirit of our free commercial code that personal property should change hands as easily, freely, and readily as possible; whilst it was equally in accordance with the spirit of our territorial constitution that the land of the country should change hands as seldom as possible, and that it should rest in the possession of certain families and be identified with certain names. ["Oh, oh!"] Upon this subject he had no less an authority than that of the late Chancellor of the Exchequer (Mr. Gladstone), who, when making his financial statement in 1853, showed that, whereas
 590 d. l., d. l. l. l. l. d. l., d. l. 591
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he wished to know why the soldiers who were to be encamped at Aldershot, in order to learn their duty in the field, were not instructed in that part of it which consisted in the soldier forming his camp and hutting himself; whether the small extra pay which might be allowed for this would not be a saving of cost of labour, as well as be useful for the instruction of the soldiers; and whether the huts were to be removable, and the men to be instructed in putting them up and pulling them down again.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he would only make one or two observations on the Motion before the House. The hon. Member for Oldham proposed to disturb a question which most reasonable and patriotic people had hoped was settled for a very long time, if not for ever. The hon. Gentleman appeared to have two objects in view. He proposed to diminish the time of working, not, as the hon. Member for Halifax (Mr. Crossley) said, by one hour, but by two. He (Mr. Bright) was not able to see the difference which was said to be made by the arrangements of the Saturday under the Bill of 1847; but he took it that instead of sixty hours a week it was to he fifty-eight. The whole matter, then, in dispute was two hours in the week. This question had been much discussed in that House and in the country, and in that House it had been treated as a party question with more than ordinary bitterness, and in the country it had been made a question in which men were hot and fierce in their mutual denunciations of each other. In 1850 the question was understood to have been settled by one of these compromises by which many questions were settled in that House—Lord Ashley being a party to it on the one side, and a large number of the manufacturers on the other. The hon. Member for Oldham said that Lord Ashley was disowned by those who had previously given him their confidence. It was quite true that certain persons had
 611 612 613
 MR. BRIGHT  here explained, that all that he had meant upon the occasion alluded to was, that he acquiesced in what had been done by others. A Secretary of State, he presumed, was the mediating party.
 MR. COBBETT  thought that as the hon. Member spoke so positively of a compromise, and of the very parties to it, he must know something more of the manner
 618 619
 MR. COBBETT  said, he would now beg to move for leave to bring in a Bill to limit and regulate the hours of work of females and young persons in the factories of the United Kingdom to ten hours in the day, and to provide the means of more perfectly inspecting the factories. Two years ago he had obtained leave to bring in a similar Bill, but at too late a period of the Session to have any chance of passing it, and last year, though he had made several endeavours to obtain an opportunity for renewing his Motion, he had been unsuccessful. He had, therefore, taken the earliest occasion which offered itself this year, and he hoped the House would allow him now to introduce his Bill, in order that it might be printed and circulated through the country with a view to its full discussion at as early a period as was convenient after the recess. The factory question was one which had excited great interest, both in Parliament
 593 594 "On the one hand, although during the week this class would be employed somewhat more than under the existing law, on the other hand they will gain this advantage—they will have half an hour in the morning, between half-past five and six o'clock, at their own disposal; they will have, undisturbed, the whole evening after six o'clock at their own disposal; and on Saturday, after two o'clock, the whole day at their disposal."—[3  Hansard, 595 "The details I have given of these cases, and what I have further stated in my Report for the half-year ending the 31st of October last, if you will please to refer to them, will, I think, satisfy you that there must be an amendment of the existing law before the evil complained of by the millowners in the memorial from Manchester, lately presented to you, can be corrected." 596 597 598 "He had been engaged ten years in the recruiting service. For ten recruits he got formerly, he could only now get one, and that one was frequently rejected. He ascribed this to the circumstance that, when persons go to work in factories early, they do not grow to the proper size, have always some deformity, and are pale and sickly, and thin in flesh. The surgeon refuses them for being too thin, not round chested, and not standing straight. In Rochdale there is almost no use staying. I have been only able to pick out thirty men for the last eighteen months, and out of those only one was passed by the surgeon for every four rejected." 599 600 "I wish to say, that as I use up in my concern one-ninetieth part of the cotton consumed in Great Britain, I think it is right I should declare my opinion about an alteration in the law. Now, my opinion is, that whatever Bill is passed, it should be a tight one, and such as can never be evaded; it should be equal and efficient; and for this it must be a restriction on the moving power; then, if that is not granted, we must have a warden, and he must enforce the law at his discretion, and so place us all on one footing." qui tam 601
 MR. COBBETT,  in reply, denied that any compromise had been entered into by the factory workpeople in 1850—they were no parties to what had been called the "Compromise Act;" but, so far as they had time to do it, had protested against it in every form. At the time when the announcement was made in the House by the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey), which was early in May, 1850, the delegates of the working people were assembled in London, and he (Mr. Cobbett) would read to the House a Resolution come to by them on learning that Lord Ashley had given his assent to the right hon. Baronet's proposal for a Ten-and-a-half Hours' Bill. The paper was in these words—
 "2, Northumberland Court, Strand, London, "May 8, 1850. "It having been communicated by Lord Ashley to the factory delegates now assembled that he has determined to accept the Government proposition, it was unanimously resolved by the delegates—'That the delegates now assembled are of opinion that the factory workers will never consent to any variation from the limitation of ten hours per day and fifty-eight hours per week, unless it be to further shorten the duration of labour.' "THOMAS PITT, Chairman of the delegates." 617 "The short hours of labour having been agreed to by a compromise, to which he as well as Lord Shaftesbury were parties, he was no longer an opponent, but was willing to do everything in his power that the law should have a fair trial." The Times
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, that there was no reason for assuming that the Committee would not do its duty.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he must humbly beg leave to demur to the doctrine laid down by his noble Friend, that the hands of the House were to be tied by the Committee. He (Mr. Milnes) had from the first seen the great danger of difficulties arising from this or any Government being enabled to refuse information, on the excuse of a Committee sitting
 622 623
 MR. SOTHERON  said, he thought that no private Bill should be refused a second reading, unless it was shown that its principle was so objectionable that it could not be amended in committee.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that if any Member of the Committee would give the House an assurance that these papers would be moved for, he would not trouble the House to divide.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  seconded the Motion.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE,  in moving for an address for Copies of any Despatches or correspondence that bad passed between Field Marshal Lord Raglan and the Minister for War relative to the wants of the army in the Crimea, said, he would shortly state the reasons which induced him to ask the House to assist him in obtaining these documents. The House would recollect that a few days ago he had asked the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for War, whether there would be any objection to lay upon the table the correspondence that had passed between Lord Raglan and the Minister of War relative to the wants of the army in the Crimea. To that inquiry the hon. Gentleman gave an extremely unsatisfactory answer, for he stated that he objected to the production of the papers because it would not be right to produce a portion of the correspondence, and the House ought, therefore, to wait until the Government was prepared to produce the whole of it. Now, he wished to know, when the Government would be prepared to do so, and who the Government might be when that time arrived? He did not want the whole correspondence, he only asked for such extracts as related to the wants of the army and the causes of the disasters which had befallen it; he did not want those portions which related to other subjects. His principal reason for asking for it was the great interest and anxiety on the subject which existed not only in this country, but also among the officers of the army in the Crimea. It was stated that representations had been made not only to head quarters at home, but also to Lord Raglan, with regard to the wants of the army, the clothing, food, and medicine—and also with regard to the ambulance department, and many persons thought his Lordship had not attended to those representations. He was not one of those who believed that Lord Raglan was wanting in humanity, as it had been represented in some of the public prints; any one who knew that noble Lord must know that he was of a perfectly contrary disposition. He knew from officers who had served with his Lordship in the Penin-
 620 621
 MR. EWART  said, he should support the Motion for the introduction of the Bill, which was similar to the one introduced by his hon. Friend on this subject last Session, and he had seen no reason to change the opinion he then entertained on the subject. He believed this was a question which could only gain ground by discussion and
 580 Nolumus leges Angliæ mutari; quæ huc usitatæ sunt et approbatæ?
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, his hon. colleague (Mr. Cobbett) had so ably brought this subject before the attention of the House, that it was matter of surprise he was not to be allowed to go any further into the subject. They had heard not long ago complaints by the possessors of land that land was unequally taxed, and complaints by the possessors of personal property that personal property was unequally taxed; but the possessors of land and the possessors of personal property could make their voices heard in that House, they could speak for themselves. Now his hon. colleague spoke for those who were obliged to appear by proxy, and whose complaints and desires therefore were more worthy of serious and prolonged consideration. He thought the request was in itself most reasonable. The factory operatives asked for a boon which was granted to them some years ago, and the enjoyment of which failed from no fault of theirs, but from the imperfection with which the measure was drawn, or from the effect of other laws with which it was coupled. Their request was simply that the House should put them in real possession of the boon which the Legislature bestowed, or intended to bestow, upon them, and this appeared to him to be a most well-chosen time to bring
 606 607
 MR. MASSEY,  in seconding the Motion, said, that considerable misapprehension existed that this measure would lead to ulterior consequences of a very grave and extensive nature; but his hon. Friend did not propose to introduce a new law; he only sought to extend the provisions of a law which had been in existence for two centuries, and which already controlled the great mass of the property of the country, namely, the Statute of Distributions—a law, the wisdom and policy of which no man could contravene. His hon. friend desired simply to comprehend in the Statute the remaining portion of landed property not now embraced in it. He (Mr. Massey) did not know that he went so far as his hon. Friend in thinking that
 576 577
 MR. WILKINSON  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman had not fully answered the arguments of the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams), and should give his support to the Motion, which he regarded as founded in justice.
 MR. WILKINSON  said, the principle of this Motion was akin to that of the Bill proposed by the hon. Member for South Leicestershire (Sir H. Halford) the other day, and he objected to that principle generally. The hon. Member for Oldham had argued that it would be better for women and children to work ten hours a day instead of twelve. Of course it would, and he only wished that they could work only eight hours. This question ought to be considered in the interest both of the employer and the workman; but he would take it as regarded the workman only, and looking only to that, he thought the true principle was, that the workman should be at liberty freely to contract to work for such a length of time as would ensure him good wages. He, therefore, trusted the House would reject the Bill.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that on several former occasions he had called the attention of the House to the great injustice of imposing the probate and legacy duties upon personal property of every description, while real property was exempt from both. This injustice had its origin in the year 1796, when Mr. Pitt brought in a Bill to subject all descriptions of property to the payment of probate and legacy duty; but the powerful landed aristocracy of that day compelled him to divide his measure into two Bills, one to impose those taxes upon personal property, and the other to impose them upon real property. Mr. Fox opposed the separation on the ground that if the tax were imposed upon one description of property, it ought to be laid upon all; and his view was strongly supported by Mr. Pitt. However, the measure, as he had stated, was divided; and while the Bill relating to personal property was carried through both Houses with little or no opposition, the other was successfully resisted. The injustice thus done had been partially remedied by the introduction of a Bill by the right hon. Gentleman the late
 582 l. l. l. 583 l. l. l. l. l., s. 584 l., l.; l. Progress of the Nation, l. l. l. 585 l.
 MR. CROSSLEY  said, he could speak from experience of the benefit of legislation on this subject. He had for sixteen years attended a factory at six o'clock every morning, and long before any factory legislation he was convinced that twelve hours a day was too long for women and children to work, and the town with which he was connected had shortened their hours of labour before the law came into operation. The system of relays had been tried in Lancashire, though not as far as he knew in Yorkshire, and it had caused great hardships on those persons who were waiting till their turn for work came on. The alteration to ten hours and a half during five days in the week and seven hours and a half on Saturdays, had enabled the people to go home at two o'clock, and had made the number of hours per week sixty instead of fifty-nine, and though there was, therefore, only one hour a week difference between the old and the new plan, if the proposition of the hon. Member for Oldham had been to go back to the old plan he would have voted with him; but his Bill went to the stopping of the motive power at a given time, and he believed you
 610
 MR. CROSSLEY  said, he must deny that the burdens on land were, in every instance, greater than those on personal property, for he was aware that, in some cases, the contrary was the fact. Horses
 592
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that it was intended that all the soldiers connected with the camp at Aldershot should be instructed in their general duties, whether in the field or in barracks, and although the barracks in which they would be accommodated were not removable, but were temporary barracks, still it was intended that these troops should be taught the way to pitch and strike their tents, and put them up afterwards, and as that formed part of the duties of a soldier, it was not intended to give them any extra pay for such work.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the hon. Gentleman had not quite correctly represented what he had said. He did not say there had been gross infractions of this law, for although he was well aware that almost every law would be violated, generally speaking, this law had been well observed.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I rise, Sir, for the purpose of stating very shortly the reasons which induce me to offer my opposition to the introduction of this Bill. If there were any ambiguity in the object of the measure proposed by the hon. Gentleman—if any advantage could be derived from allowing it to be introduced, in order that we might be more fully in possession of the objects which the hon. Gentleman has in view—I should be quite ready to agree that the Bill should be laid upon the table, and that, when we were acquainted with its contents, we should decide whether it should be entertained or not. But there is no such ambiguity about this measure. The hon. Member has stated very explicitly the provisions of the Bill; and he has stated what is perfectly true, that the measure is identical, or nearly identical, with one which he obtained leave on a former occasion to introduce, which the House had an opportunity of considering; but which the House did not seem disposed to sanction. I conceive, under these circumstances, therefore, that the House can come to a decision upon this Bill without waiting until a distant day, and discussing the measure on the second reading. I think that it would be most mischievous to allow a Bill of this nature to be introduced, if the House is not prepared at once to assent to its principle. The interests concerned are of such magnitude that any Parliamentary interference can only be justified by necessity. In former years I thought such necessity did exist, and I gave my aid in passing that
 602 603 Will. Vict. Vict. 604 605
 SIR GEORGE STRICKLAND  said, he was favourable to the principle of the proposition, having always been of opinion that the probate duty on personal property was oppressive and unjust. By the measure of the late Chancellor of the Exchequer that duty was extended to land, but in a very unmerciful manner, for he held that the duty on legacies in money ought then to have been reduced to one-half its former amount. There were burdens pressing on land more heavily than on any other species of property, and he held that the question ought to be examined more minutely before they declared that probate duty should be extended to transfers of landed property. As the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said that the case of ecclesiastical corporations should be fully considered, he thought the hon. Member for Lambeth should be satisfied with that declaration, and not press the Motion to a division.
 MR. PALK  said, it was a misconception to suppose the Bill gave a power to levy additional church rates; as it only diverted the rates of this portion of the parish into the district, which would otherwise be payable to other churches.
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, his hon. Friend had not answered the objections that had been on a former evening made with respect to this measure. There was no doubt that a church was needed, and the efforts of Sir Lawrence Palk for that purpose were highly laudable; but the real point was, that what was demanded might be effected by the existing law, and that where this Bill differed from the existing law, it did so for the worse, and sought to lay down a precedent which the House ought to guard against. The Bill gave a power to levy Church Rates, and also to mortgage the pew-rents in the first instance for the expenses of the Bill, and then for repairs, and the charge of the officers of the church, leaving the stipend the last charge, whereas it was usually the first. With regard to the right of presentation, no doubt it was reasonable that the endowers of the church should have it; but that could be done under the existing Acts. He objected to precedents being made in directions against which the House had set its face, and with regard to which it had rather shown an inclination to retrace its steps. On these grounds he felt bound to oppose the second reading.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, having agreed to the appointment of the Committee upstairs, I can, of course, have no desire, or intention, to withhold from Parliament any information which may be necessary for the full investigation of all those matters for which the Committee was appointed to inquire into. I am sure the House will see that it cannot be useful to carry on two inquiries parallel with each other at the same time. The House might have adopted the course of taking the inquiry into its own hands, and then hon. Members might have moved for such written documents as they thought desirable to notice, and they might have examined witnesses at the bar, and inquired into all these matters; but the House determined to appoint a Committee, and delegated to that Committee all the powers which the House possessed. The Committee has full power to call for all these documents, or any other papers which they may think it necessary to have in pursuing the performance of their duties. I therefore submit to the House that it will be far better to leave these papers and writings to be dealt with by the Committee. The Committee will judge of the information which it has before it in investigating all these matters. The Government will grant all those papers and documents in which is not involved political matters which may be inconvenient or dangerous to the public service; I therefore submit to the house that it will be far better to leave these papers in the hands of the Committee, who will exercise their own judgment as to the course which they will pursue, and the proceedings which they will adopt.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that one of the grounds upon which the proposition of the hon. Member rested was, that the law, as it now stood, was grossly violated. Now, it was his duty, when he held the office of Home Secretary, to watch the enforcement of this particular law; and he was bound to say that, although there were many instances in which some small violations of the law took place, still those violations were very small in amount, and they were carefully watched by the inspectors. Many of the violations were, that some steam-engine began to work five minutes too soon, or continued to work five minutes too long in the evening, and some little odds and ends in that way; and although he did not say that advantages were not unduly gained by those who adopted those means, still they were not such instances as could be put forward as violations which should induce the House of Commons to alter the existing law. There was evidently a great distinction between the restrictions placed upon the hours of work of females and young persons and male adults, and the principle upon which Parliament had acted in legislating upon the subject had been that persons of tender years could not properly be considered as free agents, and that it was necessary, therefore, to restrict their hours of labour; but that with respect to adult men, who were perfectly competent to take care of their own interests and to make their own bargains, there could not be a more vicious principle than that of the House of Commons interposing between labour and capital, between the employer and the employed, and saying that a certain limit should be fixed, and should not be transgressed upon any account, either by the willing labourer or
 616
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether he was aware that at many of the cemeteries at the east of London—for instance, Keldey's Ground, Bethnal Green, St. James the Less, Bethnal Green, and the Victoria Park Cemetery—they are in the daily practice of burying many bodies in one grave, and do not comply with the conditions on which they have been allowed to continue open, and that nearly all the cemeteries in the neighbourhood of London still adopt the system of pit burial; and, if he were aware of this, whether he meant to prevent it?
 CAPTAIN DUNCOMBE  inquired whether it was intended to appoint an admiral of the fleet?
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, it would be equally difficult and superfluous in me to follow my right hon. Friend (Sir J. Pakington) through the vast variety of important details which he has discussed at such length. I do not intend to attempt it; but I wish to take this earliest opportunity of expressing, in the strongest and most decided manner, my approval of and adhesion to the general principle upon which my right hon. Friend attempts to settle this question. I think the present is a time eminently favourable to such a settlement. The state of public feeling upon the subject is in many respects different to what it was a few years ago. There is, Sir, a growing inclination and desire upon all sides to effect some compromise—to consent to some sacrifices of opinion—with a view of passing a measure of which the want is yearly more and more felt, and which shall be practically effective. Everything points to such a result. Theories, which a few years ago had great currency, have, after frequent
 674 675 de novo. 676 677 678
 MR. FITZROY  said, he could not allow this Bill to pass even its primary stage without making a few observations—first, as to the manner in which the Bill had been introduced, and, secondly, as to the important features contained in it. He must be allowed to say, notwithstanding his respect for the right hon. Baronet, that a Bill of such importance—involving changes affecting great interests and containing such novel principles—should have been introduced by a Member of the Cabinet more immediately connected with the internal government of the country, who would give to the Bill the weight of his authority. Considering the acknowledged ability of the right hon. Gentleman the present Secretary for the Home Department, and the laborious and sedulous manner in which he performed the duties of his office, it would have been more becoming, he conceived, that this important measure should have been introduced by him rather than by a Member in the position of the right hon. Baronet, who had also no particular connection with the subject he had brought under the consideration of the House. He had to complain also that no inquiry had been made so as to furnish the requisite information on the subject of this Bill, and if he had any doubt as to the inadequate information on which the Bill had been introduced, he had but to look to the speech of the right hon. Baronet, who had stated that his information had only been derived from imperfect returns made in answer to his own inquiries. He (Mr. Fitzroy) had seen some of the right hon. Baronet's information, and he must be allowed to say that it had been contradicted on several occasions, and would in a few days be again more fully controverted. He knew no precedent for introducing such a change as proposed by this Bill without allowing Parliament to obtain information in a clear manner, to which it might refer with certainty. They had, in the reformation they proposed to effect in the City of London, taken the statesmanlike course of issuing a Commission which consisted of men well known and of great experience, who, after sitting for many days, inquiring into the circumstances of the corporation of the City, had presented a Report, on which was founded the Bill shortly to be brought before the House. The Bill proposed to deal with
 723 724
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, he believed that the corporation of London would cordially co-operate in the promotion of the objects which this Bill was designed to advance; but, looking to the great importance of the City of London, and the vast concentration of wealth within its limits, he must contend that it was entitled to a larger share of the representation in the council than the Bill of the right hon. Baronet proposed to give. The sewerage of the City of London was at present solely in the hands of the corporation, and he understood the management of that sewerage was to be left in the hands in which it at present was, and which were universally admitted to be very efficient. He understood it was proposed that the managing body for the whole metropolis was to consist of forty-two members. The City of London—not the corporation—was to be represented on that Board by only two members, who were to be members of the corporation. These numbers were calculated, he was given to understand, on the principle of population, but to give to the City of London no greater a proportion than as two to forty-two was to take a very narrow view of its importance. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) had stated that the coal tax expired in 1862, and that he thought it very doubtful whether the Legislature would ever consent to its renewal. Now, there was a great delusion in the public mind with regard to this tax. The general impression was that the whole of it was taken by the City of London, but that was not the case. The coal tax consisted of 1 s. d. d. d. d. d., 729 d.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he fully concurred in thinking, with the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, that the measure of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich (Sir J. Pakington) did not differ essentially from the secular system of hon. Gentlemen opposite. The statistics of the right hon. Baronet were, he thought, overcharged, and the right hon. Gentleman had, he considered, drawn undue inferences from them. The right hon. Gentleman drew a fearful picture of the state of crime and the want of education in this country, but the most horrible features in his picture were drawn from the criminality of persons who were now adults, and whose education, such as it was, took place some ten or twelve years ago. Whatever force might be derived from that was consequently worthless for the purposes of the present question; for the very essence of the case of those who were satisfied with the voluntary system, or the system of the Committee of Council on Education, was, that education had made great and rapid progress within the last twenty years. A large portion, also, of the instances adduced by the right hon. Gentleman to darken the picture of social evil were taken from large towns, isolated plague-spots in the country—Gateshead, Preston, Tynemouth, Sheffield, Manchester, and Liverpool—in all of which the want of education was greatly above the average want throughout England and Wales. The right hon. Gentleman also laid considerable stress upon the Reports of the National Society on the schools under their management, but the only details of evils connected with those schools were those which were connected with the buildings, and he did not bring forward a single instance where the system of education in those schools was insufficient or imperfect. The noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley) had dwelt in terms of commendation upon the permissive character of the present measure; but it seemed to him (Lord R. Cecil) that this permissiveness cut from under the noble Lord's feet the only ground on which he supported the measure; namely, that there was a great want of education in the
 685 686
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he would now beg to move the Instruction of which he had given notice.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he thought the House was greatly indebted to the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington) for his admirable statement of the condition of education in this country, and for the definite scheme which he proposed for remedying the present lamentable state of things which he had submitted to them. The best course, he considered, for the House to take would be to allow the Bill to be printed and circulated, before entering into its merits, in order that it might be compared with the rival Bill of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London. He did not feel, however, any particular deference for the noble Lord's Bill, which, he thought, had been crudely drawn and precipitately introduced. He could not help thinking that the noble Lord, finding that the right hon. Baronet was forestalling him on a subject in which he had always been accustomed to take a prominent part, had hastily introduced his ill-considered Bill, in order that he might still retain the appearance of taking the lead on the subject of education. But he could not consent, either with respect to education or colonial legislation, to wait any apocryphal period for the noble Lord's return from Vienna to discuss measures in that House. He thought that the present question was too important and urgent to be regarded as a matter of personal or party rivalry between any persons, and he would say, further, that the time for discussion was past and the moment for action had fully arrived, though it seemed to be considered as a thing of course that there should be an annual education debate, which had never yet produced any practical result. How many proposals on the subject of education had been discussed in that House, and elaborate resolutions had been passed without any difference of opinion in another place, and yet they had not moved a single inch towards carrying out the common object of them all. At the present moment there were two Bills before the House connected with education, both of which might be called denominational, and a third plan had just been referred to by the right hon. Gentleman who last spoke, which might be described as the secular plan. Perhaps the noble Lord the Member for Stamford (Lord R. Cecil) might propose
 694 695 696 697
 SIR C. WOOD  said, that the office of admiral of the fleet was not an office of course, as was implied by the question of the hon. and gallant Member, but it corresponded to the rank of field marshal in the army, and there might be sometimes officers of that rank, and sometimes none. It was not intended at present to recommend the appointment of an admiral of the fleet.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he could not give in his adhesion to the principle laid down by the right hon. Gentleman. He would like to see some portion of the national taxation applied to the improvement and extension of education, but not in the way proposed. He attached very little importance to the statistics quoted by the right hon. Baronet, so far as they related to the system of education. The past thirty or forty years had shown the great efficacy of voluntary efforts. The right hon. Gentleman had claimed a preponderance of the Established Church in the matter of education, but how had he
 673
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he had an Amendment to move to the Instruction of the hon.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he would not have thought it necessary to trouble the House with any observations but for the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and which, he thought, was calculated to raise a very unjust prejudice against the Bill which was now before the House. It was true that the
 725 726
 MR. WILSON  said, that the question of postal communication between this country and the Cape had been under the serious consideration of the Government during the last few months; but he was sorry to have to add that up to the present time they had not been able to come to any arrangement for an increased postal communication with that colony. They had hoped that the Legislature of the Cape of Good Hope would have been induced to put on a branch service from the Cape to the Mauritius, the Government of the Mauritius
 638
 MR. WILSON  said, that the first question related to a matter of some importance to the public, and he was glad to have an opportunity of replying to it. There had been a great desire on the part of the public to be enabled to send to Somerset House paper and envelopes to be stamped with postage stamps; but there was a doubt whether, under the Act establishing the penny post, any paper could be used except that with a thread drawn through it, as directed by the Act. The Government had taken the opinion of the law officers of the Crown, and they had reported that no such precaution need be used, and the Treasury had given authority to the Board of Inland Revenue at once to stamp paper and envelopes, and he had today signed a minute directing immediate preparation to be made for that purpose. When, however, he stated that 8,500,000 of these stamped envelopes passed through the post every week, the House would see that it would take some time to prepare
 640 l. s.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he should support the Amendment, because the Bill meddled in a most extraordinary way with very great interests, who ought to be heard before it came out of the Committee. He suggested that the original Motion should be withdrawn. The Amendment would be sufficient to quiet the doubts and fears of parties out of doors with regard to the Bill.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he begged to ask the hon. Secretary of the Treasury, when it is likely that the public will be able to obtain stamped sheets of paper and private envelopes for free transmission by post; also to call attention to the fact, that his promises, on the part of the Government, that the recommendations contained in the Report on the Post Office, relative to the letter-carriers of the metropolis, should be speedily carried out, remain unfulfilled?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he thought the friends of education were greatly indebted to the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington) for the effort he had made to bring this subject under the consideration of the House. The right hon. Gentleman, acting consistently with his own predilections, had undoubtedly endeavoured to take a considerable step towards establishing a free system of national education, and had recognised, to a great extent, the principle of liberty of conscience. There was one statement in the right hon. Baronet's speech to which he (Mr. M. Gibson) must demur; he referred to the statement that the Manchester and Salford Bill was thrown out through a paltry quibble. As he was the Member who moved the Amendment which defeated the Bill on the second reading, he felt bound, in justice to himself, to defend the course which he took. Though it was not unimportant whether measures of that kind were private or
 691 692 693
 MR. T. GREENE  said, he should oppose both the Motion and the Amendment. The Committee would act with entire impartiality, and hear all the evidence that could be brought forward on both sides, and he therefore trusted the House would not agree to either proposal, as the appearance of counsel would only have the effect of lengthening their proceedings to an indefinite extent, and would do no good.
 MR. KENNEDY  said, he begged to ask the Secretary of the Treasury whether, in the present unsettled state of the eastern frontier of the Cape of Good Hope, it was the intention of the Government to establish more frequent communication with that colony, by contract with a steam-packet company or otherwise?
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, although he could not join with the noble Lord (Lord Stanley) in giving his unqualified adhesion to this Bill, yet he felt grateful to the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington), for the able, candid, and earnest manner in which he had brought forward this question. It was a gratifying circumstance that the House would have two measures on education before its consideration, emanating respectively from such influential individuals as the present Colonial Secretary and the right hon. Baronet opposite. The speech of the noble Lord, who had last addressed the House, indicated that some of those obstacles to the solution of this question which had hitherto proved so formidable, had by no means given way. The friends of national education must, however, endeavour to approximate as closely as they could, and agree to forego objects impracticable in the present state of society, in order to combine in the great work of elevating the poorer classes from their degraded condition. In this spirit this measure appeared to have been prepared, and in the same spirit it was to be hoped that it would be judged by all parties, whether they were attached to the secular or to the religious system, to Church of England, or to Dissenting schools. Whatever figures might be quoted in that House, showing that schools and teachers had accumulated, no one could gainsay the actual fact which the Census revealed, that out of every four persons who were married one at least made his or her mark instead of signing a name; when, also, a large proportion of the men enrolled in the militia, regiments of many counties were unable to write their own signatures; and when, likewise, although the letters from private soldiers in the East showed an amazing advance of intelligence in the ranks of the army, the tracts distributed in the hospital at Scutari were nevertheless generally read by one person to four or five others, indicating that one out of five was about the proportion of those gallant invalids who were able to read. Now there was evidently throughout the country a failure in our schools as a system. You found this from the reports of the inspectors, one of
 687 688 689 690
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that after the unavoidable delays which had taken place in the introduction of the measure of which he had given notice, he was glad to have an opportunity, although the hour was late, to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the better Local Management of the Metropolis. It would be his duty to lay before the House a statement of the present condition of the metropolis, and of the manner in which its local affairs were now administered. It would also be necessary for him to enter into some details to show the necessity for fresh legislation, and the House would naturally expect him to explain the provisions of the Bill he was about to introduce to remedy the evils and correct the abuses that now existed. He should, therefore, in order not unnecessarily to trespass upon the time or to dwell too long on the patience of the House, refrain almost wholly from any prefatory remarks, and proceed at once to discharge the duty he had undertaken. He should rest his case on a plain statement of facts, upon which comment would be superfluous and argument unnecessary. And he felt convinced that it would be admitted on all sides that the time had fully arrived when this great subject should receive the serious consideration of the Legislature,
 700 701 "Since 1831 the metropolis of the Registrar-General has been used for the census and other statistical objects. The metropolis recognised by the Registrar-General is formed of 36 registration districts, extending from Hampstead in the north, to Wandsworth in the south, and from Stepney in the east to Chelsea in the west. Its greatest dimensions measured in these directions are 11 and 15½ miles. It is according to this
 702 l. 
 
 District. Population in 1801. Population in 1851. 
 Kensington 20,465 120,004 
 Pancras 31,779 166,958 
 Islington 10,212 95,329 
 Stepney 34,909 110,775 
 Poplar 8,278 47,162 
 Lambeth 27,985 139,325 
 Newington 14,847 64,816 
 148,475 744,367 Being five times greater than in 1801." 703 l. l. l. l. s. l. s. l.; l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. s. 704 l. s., l. l.; l. s. d.; l. s.; l. s.; s. d., s. d. s., l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. s. 705 l., l. s. d. l. s. d., l. s. d. l. 706 707 708 l. l. 
 
 Number of assessments under £50 3,582 having 1 vote 
 Number of assessment under at £50, and under £75 1,333 having 2 Vote 
 Number of assessment under at £75, and under £100 732 having 3 Vote 
 Number of assessment under at £100, and under £125 431 having 4 Vote 
 Number of assessment under at £125, and under £150 259 having 5 Vote 
 Number of assessment under at £150, and upwards, 607 having 6 Vote 
 Total 6,944 709 
 
 Parish debt (1824–25) £10,000, since paid £6,000 
 Church debt (1846) £19,000, since paid £7,200 
 Guardian board (1816) £16,500, since paid £6,300 
 £45,500 £19,500 ex officio ex officio 710 l. s. l. l. s. s. d. l. s. d., l. s. d.; l. l. s. d. l. s. d. l., s. d. l. s. l. s. l. l. l. s. d. l. l., d. l. s. d. l. l., s. l. l. s. l. l., l. 711 l. l. l. l, l. l., l. l., l. l. 712 l., l. l. l. 713 l; l.; l., l. l. l.; l. l. s., l. s. d. l. l. s. d., 714 l. s. d., 
 
 Commission. Date of Commission at time of Supersedeas. Number of Commissioners. 
 Westminster and part of Middlesex Dec. 5, 1837 240 
 Holborn and Finsbury Dec. 5, 1837 150 
 Tower Hamlets Dec. 5, 1837 179 
 Poplar and Blackwall Dec. 5, 1837 67 
 Surrey and Kent Aug. 15, 1841 280 
 Greenwich Nov. 13, 1839 116 
 St. Katherine Dec. 5, 1838 33 l. 715 Geo. Vict. 
 
 Commission. Date of Commission. No. of Commissioners. Debt at Date of expiration of Commission. 
 £ s. d 
 1st Metropolitan They in creased the debt to Jan. 1, 1849 34 659,973 0 0 
 2nd Metropolitan Oct. 8, 1849 13 74,700 0 0 
 3rd Metropolitan Oct. 6, 1851 11 79,938 5 6 
 4th Metropolitan July 20, 1852 14 297,074 6 4 
 Renewed on July 20, 1854 
 5th Metropolitan Nov. 22, 1854 16 587,074 6 4 l., l., l., l. s. d. 716 
 
 Receipts. Expenditure. Cost of Management. Percent. 
 1849. 
 £ s. d. £ s. d. £ s. d. 
 71,623 13 10 85,345 3 6 22,400 17 5 28½ 
 1850. 
 91,070 6 11 94,554 10 11 21,104 17 0 23 l. l. l.; l.; l. l., l.; "London, taken in its full extent, is (as it has with literal truth been called) a province covered with houses; its diameter from north to south and from east to west is so great that the persons living at its farthest extremities have few interests in common; its area is so large that each inhabitant is, in general, acquainted only with his own quarter, and has no minute knowledge of other parts of the town. "Hence the two first conditions for municipal government, minute local knowledge and community of interests, would be wanting, if the whole of London were, by an extension of the present boundaries of the City, placed under a single municipal corporation. The enormous numbers of the population, and the vast magnitude of the interests which would be under the care of the municipal body, would likewise render its administration a work of great difficulty. "And these considerations appear to us decisive against the expediency of placing the whole
 717 "We see no reason why the benefit of municipal institutions should not be extended to the rest of the metropolis by its division into municipal districts, each possessing a municipal government of its own. What the form of this government should be, and what should be the number or extent of the districts, are questions not lying within the scope of our commission, and upon which we are not competent to express any opinion. We may be permitted here to remark, that the power of petition to the Crown for the grant of a municipal corporation given to Parliamentary boroughs by the Municipal Corporations Act, and by the Act of 1  Vict. 718 719 "We suggest the creation of a Metropolitan Board of Works, to be composed of a very limited number of members deputed to it from the council of each metropolitan municipal body, including the corporation of the City. We propose that the management of public works, in which the metropolis has a common interest, should be conducted by this body. At present works of this sort can only be undertaken either by the corporation of London, from its own peculiar funds or under powers created for the purpose by special legislation, or by the Executive Government out of Parliamentary grants. It is manifest that a power of executing public works of general metropolitan importance, such as the construction of bridges over the Thames, or the opening or widening of main lines of street, accompanied by a power of metropolitan taxation, would, though founded on a basis of popular election, require efficient safeguards for its prudent and useful exercise. We therefore, think that the plans of the works to be executed should be submitted to a committee of the Privy Council, and its consent obtained before they are carried into effect. We may add that cases may arise where public works may be executed in the metropolis partly out of the metropolitan fund and partly from Parliamentary grants, and that in these cases a control of the Executive Government such as we have proposed would be indispensable. The Commissioners recommend in their 29th suggestion, that in the event of a division of the metropolis into municipal districts being made, a metropolitan board of works be created, composed of members deputed to it from the council of each metropolitan municipal body, including the common council of the City." 720 l., l. Will. 721 cloaca maxima
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he was much obliged for the promise of assistance given by the right hon. and learned Gentleman. The proper time for discussing the coal tax would be when the Bill was under discussion. He proposed that district sewers within the City of London should not be interfered with in any way, directly or indirectly, by any local or metropolitan board, but that they should remain under precisely the same control as at present. He could not conceive that anything could be better managed than was the sewerage of the City of London, and his hope and belief was that persons would be found to manage the sewerage of the other districts of the metropolis equally well with that in the City. With regard to the statement of the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Stuart Wortley), that the corporation was not sufficiently represented by two members in the proposed Board, he would state that he had calculated that representation on the basis both of population and of value, but that was a matter quite open for further consideration.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I presume, Sir, the House will not at present be called upon to express a decided opinion on the measure which has been laid before them in detail by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Droitwich. I am desirous, on the part of the Government, to state that they give their willing assent to the introduction of this measure; and I am sure the House will agree with me in thinking that the right hon. Gentleman who has brought it forward is entitled to great credit for the spirit in which he has approached the subject, and for the comprehensiveness and liberality of his scheme. I only wish I could feel sanguine as to the proposed measure proving an effectual remedy for that defect in the education of the large body of the people which we all
 679 680 681 d. 682 683 l.; l.; l.; l.; l. 684
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was not aware that the practice of what were called pit burials was in general use in the cemeteries in the neighbourhood of London. But a specific statement had been addressed not long ago to the home Office with regard to four of those cemeteries, three of them being among those named by the hon. Gentleman, and the fourth being Abney Park Cemetery. An inspector had been ordered to inquire into the accuracy of that statement, and had given in his Report. It appeared from that document that Victoria Park Cemetery and Abney Park Cemetery were both exempted from the operation of the Act, being two of the cemeteries in Schedule B; so that the Secretary of State had not the power of ordering there a limitation or a discontinuance of the burials. It was otherwise with the remaining two. In Keldey's Ground some irregularity seemed to have existed, but that irregularity did not appear to have been considerable, and on the whole the Report was favourable to the management of that cemetery. He had further to state, that it was to be closed in a few months. With regard to St. James the Less, Bethnal Green, the Report had been most unsatisfactory. No order for closing it had been issued; but an order bad been made that not more
 639
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : * 641 642 643 644 l. l., l. 645 "I do not believe that one in five of the pupil teachers ever become schoolmasters or schoolmistresses. Hence there is a great dearth of masters. In short, other trades pay better than that of a master, in proportion to the work done and the sacrifices made. The minutes of 1846, therefore, have failed in this important respect." 646 l. s. d. l. s. d. l.; l.; l.; l. l. s. d., l. 647 648 649 650 651 652 "A rough attempt to classify, according to efficiency, the 29,425 private schools which sent returns, produced the following result:—superior, 4,956; 7,095; inferior, 13,879; undescribed, 3,495. The distinction, of course, is, in some measure arbitrary—the returns not always furnishing the means for an unhesitating judgment; but I believe it does not represent unfairly the actual state of things with reference to private schools." "In the case of 708 of these 13,879, the returns were respectively signed by the master or mistress with a mark." 653 654 "The new children thus admitted were grossly and absolutely ignorant. I have been painfully struck with the uniformity of ignorance which is shown to prevail among the newly admitted in all the returns sent to me. It is not only that children of twelve to fifteen years of age cannot read or write, but they are not acquainted with the Creed, or with the Lord's Prayer, and scarcely know that there is a God in heaven. Personally, I have made inquiries in most of the uniour my district whether such cases were of frequent occurrence, and the invariable answer has been
 655 "For the education of this vast population there are but 119 schools, and only 28 of these are returned as public. In all the 119 schools there were only 7,553 children in attendance on the 31st of March, 1851, which leaves the enormous number of 11,447 children unaccounted for." "These statistics certainly tend to establish the opinion that neglected childhood and juvenile crime stand to each other in the relation of cause and effect." "The result of my experience is to fill me with sorrow at the woeful amount of gross ignorance on moral, religious, and useful subjects in the great majority of cases." 656 "During three years' observation, the performance of my duty has brought me in contact with 1,733 men and boys, and 387 women and girls altogether unable to read; 1,301 men and boys, and 287 women and girls who knew not the name of the Sovereign; and 1,290 men and boys, and 293 women and girls so incapable of receiving moral or religious instruction that to speak to them of virtue, vice, iniquity, or holiness, was to speak to them in an unknown tongue." 657 658 659 l. ex officio 660 "Sir, I beg leave to inform you that having been appointed to the newly-formed district of Eldon, Sheffield, containing a population of 5,500 souls, I built a church, which was consecrated in June, 1849, but it is still without a tower, and I have no schools built for the accommodation of the young. Chartism and infidelity avow in all directions their dangerous principles. The young grow up in ignorance and vice. The temptations of a large manufacturing town are felt in numberless ways. Under these circumstances, I am anxious to complete the work I have begun, and to raise a school for the reception of daily and Sunday scholars; but local resources are few and scanty." 661 "There are ten propositions on the subject which my observation leads me to affirm:—1. Elementary schools in general are not, at this time, being adequately maintained. 2. There is not a fair prospect, on the present system, that they will have a sufficient annual income. 3. On the contrary, there is, in a majority of places, a decline of income. 4. The endeavours to obtain yearly contributions to schools are harassing and vexatious, and the means sometimes resorted to for raising funds, such as high fees, and scales of fees, are injurious to the schools. 5. There is a painful and injurious uncertainty about the efficient maintenance of schools, also pernicious fluctuations of income, arising from such causes as the death of a benevolent landed proprietor, or of a liberal millowner, or the loss of a good master, undoing in a moment the work of years, and causing flourishing schools to fall into decay. 6. Many districts are absolutely unable from poverty to maintain good schools without extraneous annual aid. 7. In districts where there is no absolute deficiency of money, or even where there is wealth, the schools are often suffered to languish, from parsimony, or from indifference, and from hostility to education. 8. It is desirable to abate the jealousies and ill feeling often at present engendered among different religious denominations by contests for subscriptions to schools, &c., and to enable every deserving school to have an independent income. 9. It is often very desirable, but not feasible through want of means, to admit some of the scholars free to schools; and, in some cases, wholly free schools are requisite. 10. The above-named evils cannot be remedied, nor the wants supplied, by any other means than by a rate for education." 662 663 664 665 [Slight murmurs.] 666 667 "He could not see any connection necessarily between religion and arithmetic, for example, or between the doctrines of Christianity and any of those other matters which formed the ordinary branches of education. He admitted, of course, that if a man was thoroughly educated—and, speaking in a Christian country, he might add, if he was a complete Christian man—he must not only have that instruction which was to be obtained in the ordinary routine of schools, but
 668 "The question was, why was it that a system which was established in America, which everybody applauded, which all persons submitted to with probably greater satisfaction than they subscribed any other State impost whatever, could not be transplanted into one of our towns?" Evidence as to the Religious Working of the Common Schools in the State of Massachusetts. 669 670 "The Roman Catholic, as the national religion, is that taught in the schools of Austria; but dissenters from this form of faith are neither excluded nor separated, nor are they required to engage in the religious services or peculiar ecclesiastical learning in those schools. In the Roman Catholic schools, the Jews, as well as the Protestants, and other Dissenters, arrive one hour after, and leave one hour before the other pupils, these two hours being occupied with religious services and instruction, such as was attempted in this country some years ago. There are other non-Catholic schools, particularly in Transylvania and the military frontier, Gallicia, Moravia, and Silesia, Bohemia, and Cathia, amounting to 2,037 primary schools, the religious instruction of which is in accordance with the creed of these countries, the oversight of which is committed to the clergy of each particular denomination." "In the majority of these schools the members of the different religious sects are received with a willingness and with a Christian charity which puts to shame our religious intolerance. … Those who differ in faith from the master of the school are allowed to absent themselves from the doctrinal lessons given in the school, and are required to attend one of their own clergy for the purpose of receiving from him their doctrinal instruction. Even in Friburg, a canton governed by Catholic priests, who are themselves under the influence or the Jesuits, Protestants may be found mingled with the Catholics in the schools, and are allowed to absent themselves during the hours of religious lessons; and in Argovie, a canton which has lately so distinguished itself by its opposition to the Jesuits of Lucerne, I found that several of the professors in the normal school were Catholics, and that the utmost tolerance was manifested to all the Catholics attending the cantonal schools," "It was long debated in France how the difficulties arising from religious differences should be overcome,—whether they should attempt to
 671 brevets de capacité 672
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, that while agreeing with his right hon. Friend and colleague (Sir B. Hall) as to the evils arising from the anarchical and anomalous state in which the Government of the metropolis was left, differed from him as to the value of the remedy now proposed. The Bill proposed to divide the metropolis into thirty-six districts, to be apportioned according to the existing artificial boundaries, irrespective of the levels and natural distribution of the area, which had hitherto been always more or less regarded in legislation on this subject. A quarter of a million of money had been expended, because man's artificial divisions had been followed in preference to those of nature in respect to the line of sewerage in one of the largest districts of London; and it was to be feared that those local jealousies and conflicting interests which had so unhappily prevailed in the seven existing divisions of the metropolis would be multiplied thirty-six times by this measure. They would also have thirty-six separate sets of officers, who were likely to be both under-skilled and overpaid. Moreover, the sewer-rate was a landlord's tax, and yet the whole power of deciding upon work, effecting the property of the long leaseholders and landlords of the metropolis, was to be confined to the temporary ratepayers; so that the Bill would create this anomaly, that London would be the sole place in England where the only persons excluded from the control of the expenditure would be those who had to defray it. But, further, there was a danger that the proposed local Parliament of forty-two Members would discuss politics instead of sewerage questions, and threaten to overshadow the authority of the Speaker and that of the Imperial Parliament.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I hope the House, Sir, will not be alarmed at the danger shadowed out by my noble Friend, that either you, Sir, will be dispossessed of the chair which you now occupy, or that the authority of this House will be imperilled by the encroaching spirit of the local Parliament now proposed to be created. Still less do I fear that the House will be
 727 728
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I am sure, Sir, the House is greatly indebted to the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich (Sir J. Pakington) for the very interesting and able speech with which he prefaced his Motion, and which shows that he has applied his powerful and vigorous mind to the investigation of one of the most important subjects to which a public man can devote his attention. With regard to the measure he has proposed, until it is laid before the House, and we have had an opportunity of becoming acquainted with its details, I think it is premature to express any decided opinion as to the comparative merits of the scheme of the right hon. Baronet and that of my noble Friend (Lord J. Russell), to which allusion has been made in the course of the discussion. I must say, however, that I think some of the observations of the hon. Gentleman who last addressed the House, referring to
 698 apropos 699
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I am come down to the House prepared to introduce the Resolutions with regard to newspaper stamps; but although the statement of the views of Her Majesty's Government may be made on the Resolutions, yet as the Bill which I shall ask permission of the House to introduce is not yet in the hands of hon. Members, it will be perhaps inconvenient to enter into a debate upon the question at present; if, however, it be the wish of the House there should be a debate, I would reserve my statement till the second reading. If, on the other hand, the House is willing to listen to my statement and to postpone the debate until the second read-
 775
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Mr. Bouverie, in the year 1851 a Select Committee was appointed, upon the Motion of my right hon. Friend the Member for Manchester (Mr. Milner Gibson), to inquire into the question of newspaper stamps. That Committee examined many witnesses, they investigated the entire subject in considerable detail; and they embodied the result of their inquiry in a Report, which concludes with the following passage—
 "In conclusion, your Committee consider it their duty to direct attention to the objections and abuses incident to the present system of newspaper stamps, arising from the difficulty of defining and determining the meaning of the term 'news;' to the inequalities which exist in the application of the Newspaper Stamp Act, and the anomalies and evasions that it occasions in postal arrangements; to the unfair competition to which stamped newspapers are exposed with unstamped publications; to the limitation imposed newspapers; and to the impediments which it throws in the way of the diffusion of useful knowledge regarding current and recent events among the poorer classes, which species of knowledge, relating to subjects which most obviously interest them, calls out the intelligence by awakening the curiosity of those classes." "How far it may be expedient that this tax should be maintained as a source of revenue, either in its present or in any modified form, your Committee do not feel themselves called upon to state; other considerations, not within their province, would enter into that question. But, apart from fiscal considerations, they do not consider that news is of itself a desirable subject of taxation." "That it is the opinion of this House that the laws in reference to the periodical press and newspaper stamp are ill defined and unequally enforced; and it appears to this House that the subject demands the early consideration of Parliament." 776 Literary Gazette, 777 d. 778 l., l., 779 780 Athenœum, Builder, Medical Times, Medical Gazette, Times, The Morning Chronicle, The Herald, The Morning Advertiser, 781 quasi- Punch. Athenœm, Illustrated London News, 782 Illustrated 783 News, d., The Times. Illustrated News London Journal, The Times, The Times Penny Magazine, London Journal Family Herald Penny Magazine, 784 Town, Age, Satirist, Argus, The News of the World Lloyd's Weekly Newspaper, The Times. d., d. d. 785 "I have by me a small advertising sheet which appears in a neighbouring town (to save the law) monthly; and which, but for the operation of the law, would probably appear fortnightly, if not weekly. Its weight, to judge by the quantity of paper which it contains, does not exceed 1–20th that of  The Times l. s. d. 786 l. l. 787 The Times The Times The Times The Times l. 788 d. "That it is expedient to amend the Laws relating to the Stamp Duties on Newspapers, and to provide for the transmission by Post of printed periodical publications. "That any periodical publication, to be entitled to the privilege of transmission and retransmission by the Post, shall be printed on paper stamped for denoting the Stamp Duty imposed by Law on a Newspaper, printed on the like number of sheets or pieces of paper, and of the
 789 "That printed Newspapers (British, Colonial, or Foreign) shall be transmitted by Post between places in the United Kingdom and Her Majesty's Colonies, or Foreign Countries, or between any ports or places beyond the Sea (whether through the United Kingdom or not), either free of Postage, or subject to such rates of Postage, not exceeding 2 d.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I have listened with great interest to the very elaborate statement of my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and I entirely agree with him in the opinion he seems to entertain, that it would be better that the Bill should be printed and laid before the House, and that there should be some brief opportunity at least of giving it consideration before we enter into any full discussion of its merits, or into any comparison between the particular provisions of my right hon. Friend's measure and of that which I had the honour of introducing. Parental partiality, probably, renders me an unfair judge on this subject, but I cannot deny that I regard with regret the changes which my right hon. Friend has introduced into the plan as originally framed. At the same time, in considering a measure of this kind, I think it is our duty, as Members of this House, to ask ourselves, not so much whether the measure that is proposed is in all respects conformable to our own wishes and predilections, or even whether it is the best that in our opinion could be submitted to Parliament, but whether, upon the whole, it goes so far in avoiding all existing difficulties of a serious and pressing character, and in introducing material and substantial improvements in the law, as to make it worth our while to recommend and promote its adoption by the Legislature. That is the principle upon which I desire to consider this Bill of my right hon. Friend's when it shall have been laid upon the table. There are, however, one or two points in the measure proposed by my right hon. Friend upon which I wish to say a word. I confess I was very glad to hear my right hon. Friend signify, towards the close of his speech, that he was not indisposed to give a favourable consideration to the proposal, provided it appeared to be in accordance with the wishes of the House, to introduce into his Bill, not a qualification or alteration of the measure, but Simply an
 790 Quarterly Edinburgh Review, 791 792 ad libitum 793 794 795
 SIR FRANCIS BARING : Sir, I am not about to enter into the discussion of the Motion itself now before the House, but there is one part of the subject which I think the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer dealt with rather unsatisfactorily, and which the late Chancellor of the Exchequer (Mr. Gladstone) touched on still more lightly—I mean that part having reference to our financial operations. The Chancellor of the Exchequer stated with perfect candour that he apprehends that at least 200,000 l. l. l. 796 l.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, as this was not the first time a measure of the kind now proposed had been submitted to the House, it was impossible not to be in a certain degree influenced by a consideration of the quarter whence these Resolutions proceeded. He must confess that, between the Resolutions now proposed and those which were originally proposed by the late Chancellor of the Exchequer, although he could trace a strong family resemblance, still there appeared to him to be a consi-
 801 802
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I beg to assure the right hon. Baronet the Member for Portsmouth that I have maturely considered the financial consequences involved in this measure, and I have no doubt that my predecessor had done the same; but it must be remembered that this is not merely a fiscal matter, because, as I have already stated to the Committee, the existing law respecting the stamp duty upon newspapers has been brought into a most inconsistent and anomalous state by a succession of indulgences which were made for the benefit of a certain class of newspaper publications. The consequence of those indulgences is, that the greatest difficulty exists in the administration of the present law. The Board of Inland Revenue are perplexed by different publications which are set up, as it were, in defiance of the existing law. Frequent correspondence takes place between Mr. Timm, the solicitor to the Board, and the proprietors of various newspapers. Some of that correspondence has been from time to time brought under the consideration of the House; it is made the subject of com-
 803 Commercial Journal and Family Herald: 804 War Telegraph War Times, War Fly Sheet, War Fly Sheet, War Sheets l., 805
 MR. GLADSTONE : I feel, Sir, that the chief part of the financial responsibility of this measure can rest upon no other person than myself; and, therefore, after what has fallen from the right hon. Member for Portsmouth (Sir F. Baring), I wish to add a word to what has been stated by my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He has pointed out, not only that the present state of the law is a theoretical absurdity, but that it contains practical difficulties which have reached such a pitch as to be entirely intolerable; that not only has it become utterly impossible for the gentlemen connected with the Board of Inland Revenue to discharge their duty to the public by enforcing the law, but that the cases which have occurred have been so glaring and so numerous as to bring all law into discredit. The very fact, also, of bringing the Government of the country into contact with persons under circumstances so disparaging, and of exposing them to questions in this House to which they are unable to make satisfactory replies, is a strong reason why Parliament should deal with this question. But, in defence of my right hon. Friend and myself, I must remind the Committee that it is the House of Commons which is principally responsible for the introduction of this measure. Last year, when I was absent, owing to indisposition, the discussion was raised by my right hon. Friend the Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) and others, not upon the suggestion of the Government, because the Government adopted a dissuasive tone in the matter; and it was rather in deference to the strong and unanimous opinion of the House that the Government gave way, and not because they thought that the proposition was either a wise or a prudent one. Now, what did the House do under the pressure of circumstances—what did both sides of the House think fit to do? At a time when the country was engaged in a war, when every Member of this House must have known that the demand for the year would exceed the provision which was made—liberal as that was—a Resolution was agreed to to the effect that the law with regard to newspapers was imperfectly defined and partially enforced. I am not one of those
 806
 MR. BENTINCK  said, the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) had stated that there was an inconsistency in having assented tacitly to the Motion of the right hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) last year, and now opposing the Resolution of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Now, he (Mir. Bentinck) had not spoken on the occasion when the right hon. Gentleman's (Mr. Gibson's) Motion was discussed, but certainly it would be a sweeping rule to lay down in that House that silence invariably gave consent. But, in fact, there was no real inconsistency between supporting the Resolutions of last year and opposing the present Motion. The right hon. Member for Manchester's Motion was—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, the laws in reference to the periodical press and the newspaper stamp are ill-defined and unequally enforced, and it appears to this House that the subject demands the early consideration of Parliament." 814
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the Resolutions would be reported to-morrow, and the Bill would be then introduced.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING : Sir, I must make a few observations—but, following the example of the right hon. Gentleman who has just resumed his seat—not upon the present question, because I think, with him, it will be better to wait until we have the financial statement of the year before us previous to entering into that question. I will only say, that when that statement is made, I hope the Chancellor of the Exchequer will be able to present the same flattering picture which has been drawn by the Secretary of the Treasury. But there is a point to which a noble Friend of mine (Lord Monteagle) was the first to draw attention, and in which he is said by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) to have misrepresented his conduct, upon which I must say a few words in vindication of my noble Friend. It is the vigilance of my noble Friend that has shamed the House of Commons, and they were indebted to his attention that the circumstances with respect to these Exchequer bills, which had escaped the House of Commons, had been brought before them. The observations made by my noble Friend had no reference to the late Chancellor of the Exchequer individually, but to a sum of money voted for Exchequer bills under particular circumstances and under particular pledges. The point was—that a certain amount of Exchequer bills was voted by the right hon. Gentleman upon the distinct pledge that it was to be a temporary loan, and that afterwards this was departed from without any notice to the House, and the bills, which were to be temporary, were made part of the permanent debt of the country. The answer to
 836 "You then voted 1,750,000 l. l. l. Hansard, l.
 MR. GLADSTONE : It was impossible.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING : The right hon. Gentleman says it was impossible.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Quite. Quite impossible.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING : The right hon. Gentleman now tells us that he had counted the bills in question as permanent
 837 l. l. l., l. l. "I fully recognise your Wisdom in sacrificing Considerations of present Convenience, and in providing for the immediate exigencies of the War without an Addition being made to the permanent Debt of the Country." l. 838
 MR. GLADSTONE : I am sorry, Sir, that what has fallen from the right hon. Baronet renders it necessary for use to explain what I said in May. The right hon. Gentleman says that on the 6th of March, I expressed an expectation that these Exchequer bills would not be renewed, and that I did not explain in May that they would. My answer is, that it would have been impossible and absurd for me to do so, because I could not then have known of the intention to renew them. I said, in March, that, according to the plan then proposed, they would not be renewed; and I said, in May, that after making full provision for the estimated service of the country, it was necessary for me to have a further command of cash to the amount of about 3,500,000 l.; l. l.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, as I was a party to those transactions to which the hon. Baronet (Sir H. Willoughby) has called the attention of the House in a very brief statement, made in a spirit of great fairness and in a temper most unexceptionable, it may be that the House will expect me to say a few words on this very small question, which has, I think, most unduly been magnified into a great one. I stated, when I asked for the issue of these bills, that they might be redeemed by the first moiety of the income tax, and at that time I explained to the House, and I thought I was successful in explaining to the hon. Baronet, that I did not want both an issue of bills to the amount of 1,750,000 l. l. 827 l., l., l. l.; l. l. l. 828 l. l. l. l., l. l. l., l. l. 829 l. l. l., l.; l. l.; l. l. l. l., l., l. l. l. l. l., 830 l. l. l. l., l.
 COLONEL KNOX  said, he wished to call attention to one point connected with the arrival of wounded soldiers home from the war. It was the system of the service upon an officer returning home from the field of action, when he had been reported as having been dangerously, seriously, or slightly wounded, to require him to go again before a medical board. It often happened that when a man was blessed with a good constitution, though reported dangerously or seriously wounded, he was able to recover in a short space of time. In such case a great act of injustice was frequently committed by the medical board, who perhaps said to him, "You are looking remarkably well, we will not give you so much as we would give to others." On the other hand, a general returning home but slightly wounded, and not blessed with so good a constitution, on presenting himself to the board, might be accosted thus—"You are looking very ill;" and they would give him a higher rate. Now he (Colonel Knox) wished that some plan should be laid down by which the report made by the medical authorities upon the field of action as to the wounds of those persons would be considered final. There was great discontent felt upon this subject, and he hoped the Government would cause an inquiry into the matter so as to prevent any injustice being done to these parties. A circumstance had come under his own knowledge at that moment which exposed the injustice of this system. A most distinguished officer of the Guards was shot through the lungs at the battle of Inkerman; but he was allowed no compensation, because it was said that he had recovered very well, and that the wound did not signify. He held that gentlemen wounded in the service of their country, and sent home, should not be exposed to the caprice of those medical men, who were not very nice as to how they ought to assess the damage. He also thought that some arrangement should be made for granting pensions for wounds to non-commissioned officers.
 CAPTAIN DUNCOMBE  said, he thought he understood the hon. Under Secretary of War to say that in the hospital ships the berths were placed at right angles amidships. Now, he hoped that they were placed fore and aft, as being more healthy and convenient for the men themselves. With regard to the hospital at Smyrna, he
 851
 MR. PERCY  said, he would beg to point out that unless the landing pier at Scutari was repaired the boats of which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Peel) had spoken would be of little use. If the Spring Palace at Scutari was to be taken as a hospital, he hoped the Government would take care not to retain it for that purpose after the month of May, as it would then become unhealthy. If wooden huts were erected within the hospital walls at Smyrna most injurious consequences would assuredly follow. He believed this plan was attempted at Scutari, but had to be abandoned. These places were all built in the form of a court, and the erection of huts greatly interfered with and impeded the ventilation. Another point to which he was most anxious to direct attention was the ventilation of transport and hospital ships, to which he recommended that Dr. Arnott's plan should he applied. It was at present most defective, from its being impossible to keep the hatchways open in a gale.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that that was the very Vote which he wished to have postponed, as he was anxious to bring before the House the many abuses that existed in the Irish Post Office system. He should, therefore, move that the Chairman report progress.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he could not at that hour enter into a discussion of the abuses connected with the Post Office in Ireland. The management was as bad as could be. The hon. Gentleman must be aware that numerous representations had been made from all quarters on the subject of the Irish mails. After the decision that had just been come to, he would merely content himself with protesting against the system, reserving further remarks till a better opportunity.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that what the hon. Gentleman had just stated fully justified him in the course he had taken.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he must express a wish that the accounts should be simplified, and those of England and Ireland kept distinct. He trusted that means would be taken to compel the railways to carry the mails at a reasonable rate, for he believed that it was owing to their high demands that the mails were not carried by them at present. He hoped that some statement would be made of the reforms intended.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, that even if the cost of the Irish establishment was greater than that for Scotland, there was sufficient reason for it in the fact, that the population of Ireland, and the business transacted by the Post Office in the latter country, were much greater than in the former. But in reality the fact was not as had been asserted. He wished to call the attention of the Committee to the inadequate remuneration of the provincial letter-carriers, both in England and Ireland. They were actually often paid less than ordinary field labourers. It was really holding out a premium for dishonesty, to pay men, intrusted often with registered letters containing money, some 9 s. s.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he wished to know if it were the intention of Government to provide an increased number of chaplains, and also to send out additional nurses to the hospitals?
 LORD NAAS  said, he wished to call attention to the conveyance of mails by coaches and cars over districts where they might be carried by the railway. He had no doubt that the railways were partly to
 853
 MR. A. STAFFORD  said, that he rose in no hostility to the Government to call attention to the medical arrangements for the sick and wounded soldiers in the East. The hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for War had succeeded to the possession of an office associated in the public mind with the extinction of more hope and the infliction of more misery than time permitted to describe, and, therefore, he must be prepared to admit that distrust and doubt attached to the discharge of the duties of his office at present. Not only was the appointment of the Committee upstairs a proof of that distrust, but the whole country had, during the winter, resolved itself as it were into a Committee to assist the War Office and to save the remnant of that army which had left this country with hopes so bright and had been reduced to a condition so "horrible and heartrending." They had been recommended by a noble Lord in the other House to assist in raising more troops to be sent forth, and the best way to assist in the performance of that duty was to elicit from the Government such information as would show that our fellow subjects would be properly cared for in the East. According to the accounts received and the opinions of those acquainted with the country, with the appearance of early spring and summer a new class of diseases would be developed, and a new chapter of horrors would be revealed, unless the Government had taken means to remedy the causes. He hoped he should be told that the unspeakable horrors of the hospital at Balaklava had been remedied, and that it was no longer a disgrace to any civilised country, as it undoubtedly was when he saw it. If the waters of the
 840 841 842 843
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, nothing can be more important than that at this period of the year we should be favoured with the financial statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and under the present circumstances in which the country is placed recognise additional reasons for our being furnished with such an exposition. I lament the causes which have deprived the House of that great advantage. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, placed as he has suddenly been in a position of great difficulty and responsibility, had a perfect right to throw himself on the indulgence of the House
 831 "Ego et Rex meus." "Rex meus" 832 l. 833 l. l. l. 834 l. l. l. l. l. 835 l.
 MR. DISRAELI : I think, Sir, that it would be very convenient that the House should be favoured with the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, because there is considerable obscurity as to the exact meaning of the Resolutions.
 MR. COWAN  said, he begged to be allowed to ask whether there was any likelihood of the promised revision taking place in the salaries of the Edinburgh Post Office officials, or whether there was any immediate prospect of their being increased?
 MR. PACKE  said, that however much certain large towns might be enamoured of this measure, certainly in country districts, where people could only obtain their newspapers through the medium of the post, it was not at all palatable. He would not, however, object to the passing of the Resolutions now before the Committee, but he reserved to himself the right of opposing the measure at a future stage.
 MR. HUTCHINS  said, that without reference to the comparative merits of the
 854 [Cries of from the Irish Members.]
 MR. HUTCHINS  said, if he, as an English Member, put a finger on a grievance, whether it referred to Ireland or England, he should not be deterred from pointing it out by disapproval of Irish Members.
 MR. WARNER  said, he thought no time should be lost in repealing those absurd and mischievous laws which obstructed the circulation of news; but he entertained very great doubts as to whether this was the proper time for extending the postal privileges of printed matter. He would admit that in principle books were as much entitled to be circulated through the post as newspapers were; neither had any claim to postal privileges. If we could legislate  de novo
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, he could confirm this statement, for he knew that in some parts the mails were carried, not by coaches or cars, but by men, and that valuable letters were in consequence often lost.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, the whole Post Office system was so ordered as to cut down the public accommodation in order to swell the public revenue. He wished to call attention to the necessity of some measure for sending the mails by
 855
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government whether Her Majesty's Government had decided to recommend the institution of an Order of Merit; if so, whether such Order was intended to be a new and distinct one, restricted to the military and naval services, and applicable to every grade therein; and whether it was determined to bring such Order of Merit into prompt operation?
 MR. WILSON  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken rose to put a
 819 l. l., l. l., 820 l. l.; l., l. l., l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l., 821 l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. 822 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l.; l. l. 823 l.; l., l. l. l., l., l. l. l. l., 824 l. l. l. l. l. l. 825 l., l. 826
 MR. WILSON  said, that the most important point upon the subject of the Post Office which had been discussed that night was with reference to the conveyance of mails by railways. Last year a great many discussions arose upon the matter, and a Committee was appointed to investigate the whole question on the broadest basis. The Report of that Committee had been for many months upon the table of the House, and doubtless many hon. Gentlemen had seen it. One of the recommendations advanced by the Committee was, that some general basis should be laid down by a Commission of scientific men to serve as a guide to the referees appointed by the railways and the Post Office to determine the rate of payment to the railways. The duty of that Commission which had been recently appointed would be to examine the case with reference to the postal communications, and to lay down as clearly as possible some general rule of charge for the employment of railway carriages under three or four circumstances: first, carrying the mails by the ordinary passenger trains; secondly, by trains appointed specially for Post Office purposes, but carrying passengers; and thirdly, for carrying letters by railways without any passenger communication whatever. When the Government had obtained the Report of that Commission, he thought the House would be disposed to pass some Bill which should render it more compulsory and more easy than at present on the part of the railways to give their services upon reasonable terms to the public. There could be no doubt, as he had already stated, that there was some inconvenience attending the arrangements respecting the transmission of mails from London to Dublin, but the Government had made repeated efforts to effect improvements, many of which had worked well, and at the present moment there was under the consideration of the Government a plan for accelerating the mails by a more rapid transit from Holyhead to Kingstown. It would, however, be attended with considerable expense. The Government was most anxious that
 856
 MR. WILSON  said, he wished to ex-
 852
 MR. WILSON  said, that it was in consequence of the alteration made in the schedule of the Bill last year by the House of Lords.
 MR. WILSON  said, he willingly admitted that reformation was required as regarded the postal arrangements for Ireland. Numerous representations, which he believed well founded, had been made on the subject. He knew that the Postmaster General was of opinion that a searching inquiry ought to made into the subject. At the same time, no part of the postal arrangements of the United Kingdom had a larger share of attention than those relating to Ireland. He could state that every attention would be paid to any representations on the subject.
 MR. BRIGHT : I am afraid, Sir, that the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has created a difficulty which does not appear to me really to exist. This House is aware that when the Government was foolish enough or wicked enough to involve the country in war no limit to taxation could be expected. With regard to the sum of 200,000 l., 808 l. l. l. 809 d., Cambridge Press: "The good Time Coming: I hear, upon good authority, that at this moment a project is on foot among the men who have been most active in the movement against the newspaper stamp duty to start a penny or twopenny daily paper, to appear at ten or eleven o'clock in the day, and to be composed of the materials furnished (at great expense) by the respectable daily papers a tiny hours before! The very idea of such villany is revolting." The Globe The Times. The Globe 810 Daily News, Morning Bulletin, d., Evening Digest, d. The Leeds Mercury The Manchester Examiner, The Manchester Guardian, 811 The Times The Times. The Times "With all our talk about knowledge, about the achievements of science, about education, schools, churches, enlightenment, and Heaven knows what not, there is something positively ridiculous in taxing that intelligence which really constitutes the great medium of a civilised country. We make a great stir about teaching everybody to read, and the State, that is the nation, pays a quarter of a million a year in teaching children to do little more than read. Then we proceed to tax the very first thing that everybody reads. In this way the newspapers pay for the education of the country, for they find their expenses aggravated and their circulation restricted by an impost about equal to the sum spent in educating the masses. But we have several times enlarged on the absurdity of a tax which, as it is a tax on news, is a tax on knowledge, and is thus a tax on light, a tax on education, a tax on truth, a tax on public opinion, a tax on good order and good government, a tax on society, a tax on the progress of human affairs, and on the working of human institutions." The Times 812 The Times. The Times The Times
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he would not then express an opinion on the comparative merits of the measure introduced by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) and the Resolutions now proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He believed, however, that, by imposing a fixed charge on all printed matter transmitted through the post, the revenue would not gain back altogether so much as it would lose by the repeal of the present postal duty for such publications. However, the whole question was one on which the opinion of the country was greatly divided, as to whether the inconveniences of any legislation whatever might not exceed the advantages that could accrue from it. The great majority of the press were opposed to both the proposed measures, while he believed the people of the country generally would prefer the Bill of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford to that now submitted to the House by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. There was great truth in what had been stated by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Portsmouth (Sir F. Baring), that the House should take into consideration what were the wants of the country, before they consented to throw away any considerable amount of revenue. He looked with very great concern at the present state of the revenue; and it should have been one of the first duties of the Government to have submitted their budget to the House, in order that it might be known what were the means which the Government possessed to meet the largely increased expenditure which the exigencies of the war had imposed on the country. It was true that in consequence of the changes in the Government it had not been possible hitherto to bring forward any financial statement, but he did trust that in a very short period the budget of the Government would be laid before the House and the country for due consideration. He trusted especially—indeed he did not believe the Government could be so insane as to do so—that they would not resort to disturb the glorious policy of no duties, or very low ones, on articles the essential food of man; and certainly not to increase the duties on articles which, as necessaries, formed the consolation of every cottager's,
 800
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he could only describe the Irish Post Office arrangements as a "Heaven-born mull;" and he must complain that, although steps had been taken to accelerate the mails in England, no similar steps had been taken in Ireland, and it was actually a fact that in some districts the towns were further apart than they were 100 years ago. This was perfectly disgraceful to the Government. Things were done in Ireland which would not be tolerated by the most contemptible constituency of the meanest district in England or Scotland.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he considered the proposed alteration of the law was demanded with reference to the due administration of the law, from a regard for the education of the people, and out of respect for the House's own recorded Resolution.
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  said, he had also given notice of a question to the same effect as the Motion of the hon. Baronet (Sir H. Willoughby)—the terms of his question being, whether the Secretary of the Treasury could give any explanation of a renewal of 1,750,000 l. l., l., l. l., l. 817 Hansard. l. 818 l. l. l.
 MR. VANCE  said, a great many complaints had been made that the Report of the Commissioners intrusted, some time ago, with investigating the condition of the Dublin and Edinburgh Post Offices, had not as yet been acted upon, and the public were consequently the sufferers. Another matter calling loudly for complaint was the paltry sum allowed for salaries to provincial postmasters in Ireland. In some instances he could state these persons were paid as little as 4 l. l.
 MR. VANCE : For example, if the hon. Member will look to the printed statement, he will find that whereas the secretary in Scotland receives 1,000 l. l.
 MR. LAING  said, he wished to make an observation upon a matter with respect to which much interest was felt in the City of London—namely, the money that had beets deposited in savings banks. The Secretary of the Treasury had laid down the doctrine that, inasmuch as the Government received as bankers the money deposited in those banks, they ought to have the same privileges as were possessed by ordinary bankers. But private bankers were at liberty to go into the market and sell or buy according to such information as they possessed relative to public matters. Would any one suggest that the Government ought to do that, and that the Chancellor of the Exchequer was to make use of the information he possessed as a member of the Government in order to buy or sell to advantage? If he did he was sure that the greatest possible dissatisfaction would be caused, and if he did not he must be prepared at times to incur a certain loss in savings-backs operations. The Govern-
 839
 MR. LAING  said, he felt considerable
 807 l.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I think, Sir, that the right hon. Gentleman who has last spoken has scarcely placed this matter on its proper footing. This is not properly a fiscal question, though it does involve revenue considerations; but are we to be told that this country is so pressed in her finances as to be unable to meddle
 797 l. l. l. The Times, d. d., 798 d., l. l. 799
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he wished to know whether, in the case of the Resolutions being agreed to, the Bill would be brought in to morrow?
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he wished to know why the superannuation allowances were placed in a separate Vote, and not included in the present Vote.
 MR. KIRK  said, he could not avoid complaining of the arrangements by which the mails were sent from London to Dublin. The correspondence of merchants and others was, in consequence, unnecessarily delayed. He thought it was quite practicable to obviate these delays by a very easy alteration in the hours of their departure.
 MR. KIRK  said, he had repeated communications with newspaper editors and proprietors, and they unanimously condemned the Bill of the late Chancellor of the Exchequer, and were desirous that the present law should not be altered. He conceived that the existing law afforded as many advantages to the public as any measure could possibly give. He was not, however, disposed to offer any opposition to the Resolutions of the right hon. Gentleman on the present occasion, but he had felt it his duty to state what had been the communications made to him on the subject by those who were the most deeply interested in it.
 MR. MICHELL  said, be wished to ask how it came to pass that the salaries of all the higher officials in the London Post Office had been raised, while such paltry sums were paid to country postmasters and letter-carriers? The whole establishment, in his opinion, required revision.
 MR. GROGAN  said, the anomalies of the Post Office were general all over Ireland, and should be taken into immediate consideration, with a view to their removal.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, it appeared that the number of chaplains was not sufficient at Scutari; the Government had it under consideration whether any addition should be made to the number. He was not aware that any arrangement was in contemplation at present for sending out an additional number of nurses.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, there had been hospital huts erected in the yard of the infantry barracks at Scutari; but the moment the Government were made aware of it, their removal was directed. The huts proposed to be erected at Smyrna were to be on a parade ground adjoining the hospital, but not within its precincts.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that it was quite unnecessary for the hon. Gentleman to disclaim being actuated by any spirit of hostility towards the Government, and from the attention he had bestowed upon the state of the military hospitals, both in this country and in the East, any suggestions which he might offer on the subject could not fail to be treated with respect and to receive attentive consideration. He agreed with the opinions which had been expressed in that House and in another place, that with the view of obtaining recruits for our military forces it was most desirable that the Government should be able to show that they neglected no means which either medical science, or the mechanical appliances at their command, rendered available, in order to enable invalid soldiers to regain their strength as speedily as possible and to rejoin the ranks of their regiments. He was not sorry that some delay had occurred since the hon. Gentleman gave notice of his questions, because in the interval the Government had received the Report of the Commissioners who had been sent out by the Duke of Newcastle to inquire into the state of the hospitals in the East, and during the last two days he had received authentic reports from Smyrna which enabled him to speak upon the climate of that place with some confidence. Before replying to the questions of the hon. Gentleman with respect to the hospital at Balaklava, he wished to say a word or two with reference to the regimental hospitals in the camp before Sebastopol. There had been in those hospitals a very large number of sick—at times, indeed, as many as 20 per cent. of the whole force under Lord Raglan's command. The numbers of sick and wounded men in those hospitals at this moment were not so large, but still they were very considerable. Although the Commissioners who had reported upon the state of these hospitals were in the Crimea during the first three weeks of January, when the cases were, he believed, of the most malignant character, and when the resources at the command of the medical officers were the smallest, it was plain that much suffering had been endured which a clearer insight into the amount of sickness likely to prevail during a winter campaign might possibly have obviated. The great defects with regard to the hospitals, it appeared, had not arisen from any deficiency
 844 845 846 "There are tanks in the barrack square containing water, which is of good quality; and the Pasha of Smyrna, himself a medical man, states that the supply can be increased to any amount, it being conveyed by means of aqueducts from the neighbouring hills; he states that the convalescents from wounds recover very rapidly here, and that the situation is most healthy." "My experience tells me that Smyrna, instead of being the most unhealthy climate in the Levant, is without exception the most healthy of all the large towns in that country. Indeed, although I have travelled a good deal, I do not think I ever met with any place, situated in a hot climate, more so." "I have put myself in communication since my arrival, not only with Drs. Wood and M'Raith, two intelligent and respectable medical men, who have long practised in Smyrna, but also with the consul and many of the chief merchants, with a view of obtaining their opinion of Smyrna in a hygienic point of view. All express their most unreserved conviction, that, except during certain visitations of plague, which fortunately of late years has become very rare, Smyrna will be found to be one of the most healthy places of the Mediterranean. Nay, many do not hesitate to assert, that if its inhabitants take only certain easy precautions, to be afterwards referred to, it may be accounted equal in this respect to the salubrious parts of England. Malaria is the chief and almost sole source of disease." 847 848
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the state of the Unfunded Debt for 1855–56. He was anxious to obtain from Her Majesty's Government some explanations in reference to this subject, because a strong impression rested on his mind that this branch of the public debt stood at a much higher figure than Parliament had a right to expect, or even, he suspected, were aware of. Indeed, he should have directed attention to the matter during the passing of the Exchequer Bills Act; but it did so happen that at that time there was no responsible Finance Minister in the House, besides which the Bill was only a sessional one. The only occasion on which he had had an opportunity of stating his opinion on the subject was upon the occasion of the passing of the Bill—which was late upon a Wednesday—when he took what he might venture to term a flying shot at it, and expressed a hope that these Exchequer bills would not change their nature and he turned into funded debt securities. However, the hon. Secretary to the Treasury (Mr. Wilson) seemed on that occasion to consider any such contingency quite impossible. It was, however, an indisputable fact that Exchequer bills were converted into funded debt in the months of June and October of the year 1853; and it was against that process that he wished strongly to protest. The unfunded debt of 1853 amounted to 17,742,000 l. Vict. l. l.; 815 l.; l. l. per se, l.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he could not regard one argument at least of the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) as very conclusive, namely, that because the country was at war the present was to be the moment for getting rid of taxation. He quite agreed in the opinion that this was not exclusively a fiscal question; for, without doubt, it involved a great legal difficulty, and it was but right that the House of Commons should come to such a decision as would
 813 l. l.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, in reply to the question of the hon. and gallant Member, I beg to state, that it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government, as was stated on a former occasion in the other House of Parliament, to establish an Order of that description. Of course, it will apply to both services, because wo hope that merit will be equally prominent in both. The particular arrangements of that institution have not yet been settled. Information has been sought in other Countries in which a similar institution exists, and, until that information is obtained, the Government cannot frame the regulations under which the Order will be distributed.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I trust the House will rest assured that Her Majesty's Government will take effectual measures for the recovery, the cure, and the treatment of those brave and gallant men who have either suffered in conflict with the enemy or whose constitutions have been impaired by exposure incidental to the service. I can assure the House that my noble Friend at the head of the War Department feels that to be one of the most incumbent duties which he has to perform. Besides those different measures which
 849 850
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he should oppose the Motion, for the following reason. It was proposed to raise the sum of 800,000 l. 879
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he should oppose the Bill. No parties had a right to come to Parliament and ask permission to raise the enormous sum of 800,000 l. l. l., l.? l., l., l., 881
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Government had no present intention of making any alteration in the excise duty on hops. In respect to the customs duty, it would be 1 l. l. s.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he would now beg to move that the House should resolve itself into a Committee to consider of an humble Address to Her Majesty with reference to the future management of the Royal Military College at Sandhurst—1st. That ten orphans, sons of officers of our army, navy, and marines, shall receive their education, board, and clothing free from expense to their friends. 2nd. That the number of cadets at Sandhurst, who are now admissible into the first class, be increased to fifty. 3rd. That depart-
 893 l.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he only rose to say that he entirely concurred in the feeling of shame at hearing the argument used by the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Peel). Instead of raising the character of the army, the speech of the Under Secretary at War tended to its degradation, and he trusted that the House, by its vote, would tend to show that it joined in that opinion. The college at Sandhurst, forsooth, had been styled a public establishment, while in truth and reality it was a mere private one, and it was so because the institution had to bear the expense of supplying rewards for long services to gallant officers, whom the niggardliness of their country either could not or would not otherwise provide for. It was a perfect disgrace that the college should be administered as it was, while there need be no concealment of the fact that the army was not in the slightest degree indebted to the country fur the fact of its maintenance.
 VISCOUNT PALMESTON : I have not the slightest objection to such a proposition—so far from it, I think it both reasonable and advantageous that the whole arrangements of the institution should be inquired into; and I myself shall have no objection to make that Motion.
 COLONEL KNOX  said, be must express a hope that, under such circumstances, his hon. and gallant Friend would withdraw his Motion. He would request of his hon. and gallant Friend to accept the offer of the noble Lord.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he would accept the offer of the noble Lord for a Committee of inquiry, and would not divide the House upon his Motion.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, the noble Lord seemed to forget that the balance was paid into the Treasury. If the Government would bear the expenses of these ten orphans, and extend the first class by twenty-five, it was perfectly immaterial to him from what source the money was obtained. As to his proposition that these young men should be employed in the civil service, he could not see any objection to it. [Mr. F. PEEL: Hear, hear!] The hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for War apparently objected to that part of the scheme, and perhaps thought the orphans of officers required no consideration. He thought otherwise, and as long as he had the power he was determined to fight their cause in that House. When pressing questions arose, on which votes in that house were required, situations in the civil service were obtained without difficulty, and why were the orphans of officers to be debarred from that service? The instruction at Sandhurst fitted a man for anything, no matter what it might be. If a young man showed proficiency in lan-
 902 "Proud of the victory won by Her brave army—grateful to those who wear the laurels of this great conflict—the Queen is painfully affected by the heavy loss which has been incurred, and deeply sensible of what is owing to the dead. Those illustrious men cannot, indeed, receive the thanks of their Sovereigns, which have so often cheered the soldier in his severest trials, but their blood has not been shed in vain. Laid low in their grave of victory, their names will be cherished Mr ever by a grateful country, and posterity will look upon the list of officers who have fallen as a proof of the ardent courage and zeal with which they pointed out the path of honour to no less willing followers."
 MR. LLOYD DAVIES  said, he must ask the courtesy of the House, as a new Member, to bear with him while he read a letter from a Welsh clergyman, surrounded by a primitive congregation, whose habits, thank God! had not yet been corrupted by too much admixture with the world, but who still devoutly followed the observances taught them in youth. That rev, gentleman said he viewed this proposition as part of the great scheme of Sabbath desecration, which tended, in his opinion, to bring the divine vengeance upon us as a nation. He could not avoid expressing his apprehension lest the pious injunctions the people might have received in church should be soon destroyed by their going in crowds to a place of amusement. He said this Motion, so rashly brought forward and so feebly sustained with declamation, but without argument in support of it, had no claim to be adopted.
 THE MARQUESS OF BLANDFORD  said, he was not desirous of imputing any unworthy motives to the hon. Gentlemen who had thought it their duty to bring forward a Motion of this nature, but of all the arguments used for the promotion of this measure certainly the last which should have been resorted to by its supporters (though no doubt their ideas, which were peculiar, might be sincere) was the reliIgions argument. Their attempt to resort to such an argument he considered most extraordinary; and he considered this as an underhand, circuitous, and subtle mode of introducing the "thin end of the wedge,"
 923 924 Cries of 925
 LORD STANLEY  said, he thought he was entitled to infer, from the last two speeches which had been delivered, that whatever considerations might be involved in this question it was entirely removed from considerations of a party nature. He was anxious to say a word or two upon it, because, if they came to a division, his would be a vote unpopular, he believed, in that House, and, perhaps, still more unpopular in the country; because he conceived that a Member of that House had no more important or sacred duty to perform than that of combating what he thought was a prejudice, although it might be entertained by persons for whom he had the sincerest respect and might be grounded upon the most conscientious motives. All the arguments he had heard or read against the proposition of the hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Walmsley) might be summed up under two heads—first, the abstract argument of the sanctity of the Sabbath; and next, the argument, that by opening these institutions unnecessary labour would be thrown upon Government officers. The most important of these questions was, of course, that which related to the desecration of the Sabbath, or, as it was called, Sabbath breaking; and, with respect to that question, he thought something too much had been conceded by the mover and seconder of the Resolutions. Those hon. Members had argued the question as if it was in fact a question of the desecration of the Sabbath, and the dispute was whether that institution was binding upon us, and whether that desecration was permissible or not. He thought that idea belonged to a theory utterly false and unfounded, although not uncommon in this country—he meant the theory which attempted to establish a kind of antagonism between things secular and things sacred. He did not mean to say that a man would learn in a museum or a picture gallery that which would be so important or so valuable to him as what he could learn in church, but he said that, taking it
 928 929 930 l. 931 932
 SIR, GEORGE GREY  said, he did not think that any further inquiry into this subject was necessary; but, since the House had referred it and the truck system to a Committee, and as that Committee, at the end of last Session, had recommended that they should be reappointed, he did not think it desirable to oppose the Motion.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : I have much satisfaction in seconding the Motion now before the House; I consider it one founded on the strictest principles of justice and national gratitude and such as at this time is specially demanded. According to the present constitution of the sister services, only the more fortunate, the few who have resources of their own, can look to have their families independent of want. In the army especially, an officer in the purchase of a commission buys a poor annuity on his capital, he receives the interest on the money thus invested, his services to his
 894 l. l.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he had persuaded his late Friend (Mr. Hume) not to bring forward this Motion last Session. He was glad he had done so, because the question in the hands of the present Mover and Seconder had received a blow from which it would not now recover. He would read to the House a few lines from  The Times, The Times "The opening of museums on Sundays would preclude the possibility of closing other exhibitions equally innocent and attractive. Why should private collectors be debarred the licence assumed by the nation? If Sunday visitors are able and willing to spend a shilling of their weekly earnings in the purchase of a harmless gratification, why should they not be as free to do so as to avail themselves of a gratuitous exhibition? Why should not Madame Tussaud's be open? Why not Vauxhall? The line of demarcation would grow more and more difficult to draw. Under our present institutions we can very justly close the theatres on a Sunday, but after the proposed infraction of them we should be in a strange dilemma even on this point. If scenic representations are abstractedly innocent, why proscribe them on a Sunday? If abstractedly otherwise, why encourage them on the other six days of the week? But each of these exhibitions would entail a proportionate extension of traffic and trade, till at last a closed shop on a Sunday would be a rarity resulting from the circumstances of the district or the position of the individual. 927
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he thought a Private Bill, unless it contained some general public principle, should not be rejected on the second reading, but should be investigated in Committee. The facts regarding Hartlepool were very striking, and the trade of the place had increased in a most extraordinary way. In 1835 it was a mere fishing town; docks had been made, and last year no less than 10,177 vessels entered the two docks of that port; and he found that the trade, foreign and colonial trade alone, without including the vast coasting trade in coal, was so great, that, as regards the export trade in foreign ships, Hartlepool was now the sixth port in the United Kingdom; and as regards the export trade in British ships, it was the tenth in importance. Now, it was proposed to make a great harbour by enclosing the bay. To effect this object, the Commissioners would lay a tax on the ships entering the port; they had power to do so, to a certain extent, by an Act of Parliament passed three years ago, and this Bill would only be an extension of that power.
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  said, the noble Lord had not answered the question put to him.
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  said, he begged to ask the First Lord of the Treasury whether the Austrian Ambassador had called upon Lord Clarendon for any explanation of the words stated to have been used by a Member of the Administration, that "no settlement of the Eastern question would be satisfactory unless Hungary and Poland were restored?"
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, that he would withdraw his Amendment in full confidence in the pledge which had been given by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge with respect to opening the British Museum on Saturday afternoon.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he should regret exceedingly if this Resolution, candidly brought forward and peculiarly seconded as it had been, should diminish in the minds of the working classes that reverence for the sanctity of the Sabbath, which was the honour of this country. He had mixed a great deal with the working classes, and was of opinion that opening the British Museum and other places on Sundays was taking the wrong course in order to enlighten their minds. What was wanted was, that such places should be open in the evening, and on Saturdays and Mondays, but particularly on Saturday afternoons. A movement for early closing in the City was in progress, and another movement was gaining ground for half-a-holiday on Saturday afternoon. Unhappy should he be if we lowered ourselves to the standard of France and Germany in the reverence of the Lord's Day, and happy should he be if we could raise them to our standard. There was at present a movement in Paris to lessen the amount of Sunday trading, which he was gratified to find was regarded with favour by the French Government. As a proof that the opinion of the country was opposed to propositions similar to that which was brought forward, he would refer to the fact that the number of petitions against the opening of the Crystal Palace on the Sabbath amounted to 835, which were signed by 186,048 persons, while the number of petitions in favour of opening it were 127, to which were attached only 24,249 signatures. He would, therefore, move an Amendment to the Motion in furtherance of his views on the subject. 926
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that these disturbances arose altogether from the want of good faith on the part of the Government in not giving a constitution at once. Within a few months front the present time the colony of Newfoundland had been assured in a despatch from the Duke of Newcastle that responsible government would be granted to them to the fullest possible extent. Although, however, there was not one of our North American colonies more interested than Newfoundland in the alliance which had recently been concluded between England and France, according to the latest accounts the Governor of that colony had never acquainted the House of Assembly with the message of Lord Clarendon communicating the fact that such an alliance had been established; and, although the Assembly had agreed upon a Loyal Address to Her Majesty, he believed it had never been transmitted to the Home Government. He thought, if the Government of this country were sup-
 890
 MR. FREWEN  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, if it was his intention to introduce any measure during the present Session to alter either the excise duty on British hops or Customs duty on foreign hops; and also, if he would be good enough to explain the object that the deputation from West Kent had, that waited on the right hon. Baronet last Thursday, on the subject of the hop duty? He observed, that, some accounts had appeared of a deputation to the Chancellor of the Exchequer as to the hop duties, at which it had been stated by some one, that the growers were indifferent to the repeal of the duties. Now, he knew the reverse to be the fact; and a year or two ago large meetings had been held to promote their repeal. He, therefore, begged to ask whether the Government contemplated such a measure, seeing that it was calculated to be a far more important benefit to the country than the repeal of the newspaper stamp duty, which certainly did not seem to be at all desired by the principal parties concerned; and which would entail a loss to the revenue of from 200,000 l. l. l.;
 MR. PACKE  said, he would now beg to move, that the Select Committee of last Session on Payment of Wages be reappointed to inquire as far as regards the Hosiery Manufacture.
 MR. E. BALL  said, this was one of the most important questions that could engage the attention of that House, because it concerned the due observance of the Sabbath. The hon. Mover of the Motion had claimed the advocacy of Dr. Arnold, on the ground that the doctor was not averse to the running of mail trains on Sunday; but Dr. Arnold had never said or done anything to justify a violation of the Sabbath, and therefore he considered that an unfair use had been made of his name. The hon. Gentleman who seconded the Motion had reminded them that originally the Sabbath was held on Saturday, but the hon. Member forgot that the original Sabbath was held in commemoration of the creation of the world, while the Christians changed the day—not the purpose of the day—in honour of the salvation of the world. Therefore, the one day was just as sacred as the other. He was admonished by the clock that they were rapidly advancing upon the fast day, and it seemed somewhat strange to him to find the House on the eve of a fast day discussing the question of a due observance of the Sabbath. The speech, however, of the noble Lord who had just addressed them he had listened to with so much sorrow and pain, that he felt constrained to continue the discussion, if it was only for
 933
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, this Motion
 941
 MR. HORSMAN  said, as he understood the hon. Member for Mallow, he did not ask the House to do away with the grandjury system altogether, but to put it on a better footing. The grand jury were selected by the sheriff, who was an annual officer. The control of the expenditure of a vast sum of money was therefore in the hands of the sheriff, who was elected for the year, and the grand juries who were selected only for the assizes. The counties in Ireland complained that the money advanced by the Government was expended without their having any control. That was an argument in favour of the Bill of his hon. Friend. His hon. Friend proposed that there should be a direct responsibility instead of the present system of irresponsibility, and that was so reasonable a principle that the Government would not
 915
 MR. FRENCH  said, he fully concurred in the opinion that it was exceedingly inappropriate for any private Member to attempt to deal with the extensive and difficult legislation necessary to carry out the objects of the Bill. The grand-jury system in Ireland had often been represented as a nest of jobbing from which no benefit whatever was derived. He thought that was a most unfair representation. The grand-jury system was doubtless susceptible of improvement, but no one could deny that it was a cheap, safe, and expeditious sys-
 914 l., l.
 Mr. F. SCULLY  said, he thought great mistakes had been made with respect to the government of Newfoundland. The colonists had made frequent complaints upon the subject, and they had repeatedly sent over delegates to this country to demand an alteration in the constitution of the colony. It was, in his opinion, a very strong case which would justify the recall of a Governor, but in this instance he thought a strong case had been made out. In February last year the Duke of Newcastle sent a despatch, desiring the governor to call the Assembly together to pass the Constitution Bills, in order that they might be considered by Parliament; in the month of Juno they were passed by the House, but, being resisted by the Governor, were eventually thrown over, and the consequence was, that the House refused the Vote of Supply, which caused great inconvenience in the colony and much disarrangement of money affairs. Subsequently a despatch was sent out by the right hon. Baronet now at the head of the Home Office, after seeing delegates from the colony, directing the Governor to call the Assembly together again. He did so, and in November the Bill was passed; but, without any just ground, the Governor, before it had gone through the necessary stages, dissolved the Legislature, and, instead of proceeding at once to an election, when the voters, who were
 892 l. l. l. l.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, that he did not think it would be for the benefit of the country that so important a subject should be taken up by a private Member. There were a great many Members who thought that the grand-jury system of Ireland required amendment; but the Bill for that purpose ought to be introduced on the responsibility of Government. He begged, therefore, to move a negative to the Motion of the hon. Member for Mallow.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, that although the question before the House was a very small one, it nevertheless involved a principle which he hoped would meet with its support, and that was, whether they were to go on according to the same jog-trot fashion as of old, or whether they would alter that plan to the very limited degree now proposed? The request made to them was, what were they prepared to do for the orphans of officers who fell in the service of their country? And let them remember that request was urged at a moment when those orphans were daily increasing. The hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary at War had called upon the hon. and gallant Member not to divide the House. He (Captain Scobell) hoped the House would divide, if it was only to prove whether or not they had regard for those who fell in the service of the country. They were told, indeed, that there was already a class to admit students at 40 l. l. l. 899
 MR. DRUMMOND : Sir, an expression fell from an hon. Gentleman—I do not know whether accidentally or by design—which marked the spirit in which this question is brought forward. For the first time in my life did I hear that which has been by universal consent of all Christians up to this hour called the Lord's day, designated, in the most extraordinary way, the "people's day." Now, Sir, I am going to speak of it as a question of the Lord's day. I have always been as much convinced as any man of the impropriety of the puritanical way in which the Lord's day has been observed in Protestant countries—that is to say, that whereas it was held in the universal Christian Church as a festival, since the Reformation it has been considered as a fast. But, of course, it was not called the Sabbath, because Sabbaths is the seventh; and it would have been a mere misnomer to call the first day of the week the seventh. The principle remained the same. It is of no use hunting for texts about it. Texts, Sir, are very much like precedents, and precedents are very much like quotations, of which Payne Knight said, that they are "the remembrancer of the scholar and the oracle of the dunce." Whatever texts may be cited, the principle is that the
 922 [Suppressed laughter.]
 MR. GOULBURN  said, it was his fortune to be connected with one of the institutions referred to in this Motion, and perhaps, therefore, he might be permitted to offer a few observations, not only with regard to this institution, but also upon the general question. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Southwark (Mr. A. Pellatt) proposed, as an Amendment to the original Motion, that the British Museum should be opened every day in the week except Sunday; but that at all events it should be opened on Saturday and Monday evenings. Now, as a trustee of that institution, he could honestly say that it had been the desire of that body that the Museum should be opened on the day most convenient to the working classes, and upon examination of those most competent to give an opinion, it was determined that Monday was the day which, generally speaking, the working classes devoted to such purposes as visiting these institutions. The hon. Member for Southwark could hardly be aware, judging from his Amendment, that the British Museum was opened to the general public on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays; Tuesdays and Thurs-
 934 935 936
 MR. GOULBURN  said, he had not given any pledge. He had only promised that the subject should be carefully considered.
 MR. RICH  said, he must confess that he had never heard a more narrow view taken of a question than that urged by the hon. Gentleman below him (Mr. Peel). The practical effect of the present system of management at Sandhurst was to deter altogether the sons of the gentry who enjoyed but small fortunes—and who invariably made the best officers in the army—from entrance to that institution. Its advantages, therefore, were exclusively confined to the children of the richer classes, and those of officers. For no one would pretend that the small gentry of the country could afford to pay 125 guineas annually for the education of their children. He would certainly vote for the Motion, and he hoped that there would be a complete investigation into the whole system pursued at Sandhurst.
 MR. FARRER  said, he should support the second reading of the Bill. He thought the measure was justified by the rapidly increasing prosperity of the town and port. Eight years ago the revenue enjoyed by the two great dock companies in Hartlepool was 65,000 l., l. l.
 MR. BRADY  said, he objected to the governor receiving such large pay when the duties he had to perform were so slight. He could not understand why an allowance should be made to him for forage for his horses. He was astonished to hear the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the War Department speak of the moderate cost of education at Sandhurst when the annual expense of each pupil was 98 l. s.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the House would observe that there was a difference of opinion between the statement of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Roebuck) and that of the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown. There was a gentleman in this country as a delegate from no less than two-thirds of the Assembly of Newfoundland, with regard to the conduct of the Governor; and the House, he thought, might take it that the statement of his hon. and learned Friend with regard to the Governor was true. The Governor (Mr. Baillie Hamilton) had been in office only two years, and during that time three
 887
 Mr. J. FORSTER  said, he hoped the House would not assent to any such proposal as this, by which persons who did not derive any benefit from the scheme were to pay the expenses.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR,  said, he must express a hope that Her Majesty's Government would give instructions to the governor of Newfoundland to afford the French fishermen on the banks of that island all the facilities that were extended to the subjects of the United States of America.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he rose pursuant to notice, to ask the First Lord of the Treasury what was the intended policy of the administration with respect to the Colony of Newfoundland and the complaints made by the House of Assembly of that Colony, and set forth in a petition from that Assembly to the Home Government? He should put the question to the noble Lord in preference to the Secretary
 884 885
 MR. M'MAHON  said, the county cess, amounting to near 1,000,000 of money, was paid nine-tenths by occupying tenants, who had no voice in the assessment or in the applotment of that sum. In fact it was assessment by one class, and payment by another. His (Mr. M'Mahon's) impression was, that Ireland would never be right or prosperous until it was approximated, in point of local government, to England. The grand jury jobbing in Ireland was at the base of all the other jobbery which caused the misery and the misfortunes of that country. He thought much good would result from the measure.
 MR. INGHAM  said, he should oppose the Bill, not seeing how the interest and the sinking fund for the repayment of the capital and the working expenses were to be raised. That amount would not be much short of 60,000 l.
 MR. LOWE  said, he hoped the turn which the debate had taken would justify him in saying a few words upon a subject of the most pressing importance, to which he begged to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of
 888
 MR. BARROW  said, he must beg to express the satisfaction with which he had heard the statement of the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge, that steps should be taken, if possible, to open the British Museum to the working classes on Saturdays.
 MR. BIGGS  seconded the Motion. He considered that the course advocated by his hon. Friend was one which would tend to raise the condition, moral as well as physical, of the lower classes of this country, and ultimately to benefit them in a religious view. Notwithstanding this he was well aware that the chief opposition to the Resolution would be based on religious grounds. The House would doubtless be told that the course proposed would lead to a desecration of the Sabbath. But this statement assumed that the Sabbath of the Christians was like that of the Jews. That was entirely a false idea. He would remind the House that upon the Continent, Sunday was observed in a far different manner to what it was here, and even in this country its observance was very different from what it had been. In Catholic times it had been a day of rational devotion and amusement. But unfortunately for us in this respect the Scottish feeling had penetrated here, bringing in its train religious fanaticism. He did not deny but that in other respects we had received advantages from Scotland. With reference to the question as to the manner in which the Sabbath should be observed, he would quote the opinion of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby. That rev. gentleman said, upon being asked whether he objected to Sunday travelling, that it was a question of degree, and that he for one would never use his influence to put a stop to all railway trains upon a Sunday, although upon many accounts he should wish to see their number diminished upon that day. For the satisfaction of his Scotch friends he might mention that
 920
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, that after the admirable speech of the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn, he would not have intruded upon the attention of the House at that late hour, but that he considered some remarks had been made in the course of the debate which ought not to go forth to the world unanswered. The supporters of this Motion had been represented as being animated by a sordid desire to extend the hours of labour and grind down the operative classes; but surely when the hon. Seconder of the Motion had been distinguished for his liberal treatment of those in his employment, and when other advocates of the Resolution had only the other night recorded their votes in favour of the protection of the working classes from excessive labour to a degree which the majority of the House thought too far for legislative enactment to go, accusations of this kind were the last that should be preferred against them. The right hon. Gentleman who spoke last told them of the generous intentions of the trustees of the British Museum for the accommodation of the working classes; but the proposer of the Amendment argued upon an assumption which was both a fallacy and a mockery—namely, that Saturday and Monday would be convenient days for this portion of the people to visit that institution. Why, this Motion was only brought forward after repeated attempts had been unsuccessfully made to have the Museum opened in the evening, that those whose occupations prevented them from frequenting it in the daytime might enjoy that privilege during their only hour of leisure. The noble Lord the Member for Woodstock (the Marquess of Blandford) rested his argument on the experience already acquired of the working of the Beer Bill, but if he had examined the
 937 938
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART,  in seconding the Motion, said, that the Bill of his hon. Friend sought to promote self-government in Ireland. The principle had been tried with success in England under the Municipal Corporations Act, and he saw no reason why it should not be followed by the same beneficial results in Ireland. The poor ratepayers in Ireland exercised care and caution in the selection of the board of guardians because they had an interest in keeping down the rate, and the same principle should be applied to the grand-jury system.
 MR. WATSON  said, he would suggest that it would be most desirable that an inquiry upon the subject should take place before a Select Committee, and if the noble Lord at the head of the Government would not consent to such inquiry, he (Mr. Watson) would certainly vote with the hon. and gallant Member opposite. He was an old cadet; his father died in the service of his country, and he was left an orphan in the establishment at Sandhurst. His education was good, and he there learned the principles of honour under the gallant old soldier who had gained his victorious laurels upon the fields of Salamanca. He, however, considered that it was a disgrace to the country that they had not a proper establishment for the orphans of officers. Those who had spent their lives in the service of their country had a right to expect that their families would be received and protected in an adequate asylum. We had brave and noble officers, but the education of the staff officers was lamentably deficient. Because he had a respect for the establishment in question, and a warm heart towards the army, he felt indignant at the scandalous system by which nepotism and patronage monopolised those places which merit alone should possess.
 903
 MR. WILKINSON  said, he objected to the appointment of the Committee altogether.
 MR. C. FORSTER,  said, he believed that questions of this nature could be better discussed in the House than before a Select Committee. Still, under the peculiar circumstances of the present case, he should support the Motion.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  rose to move for leave to introduce a Bill to relieve Grand Juries in Ireland from fiscal duties, and to place the administration of local affairs in elected councils. As he understood that it was the intention of hon. Gentlemen opposite to take the unusual course of dividing against the Motion, he should be compelled to enter upon some explanation relative to the general spirit of the grand-jury system in Ireland—a system which afforded a curious illustration of the opposite views which might be taken of the same object by opposite parties in the same country;—for while the grand-jury system was described by some as an institution disgraceful to a free country, demoralising in its working, beneficial to the few and oppressive to the many—on the other hand it was represented by the opposite party as a venerable institution, beneficial in its effects, and loved by the people. He wished the House to be guided by neither of these statements, but to listen to him while he described the general system and working of the grand-jury laws, and then to say whether such a system ought to be allowed to continue in any civilised country. 904 l. l. l. l., l. 905 906 l., 907 908 909 910 911 912 e. g. "le conseil règle tout ce qui est d'interêt communal." 913
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, if the only question involved in the Resolutions of the hon. and gallant Member was whether or not such an appropriation might be made of the income of the Military College at Sandhurst as would secure for the orphan children of the officers of the army the means of receiving a gratuitous education there, he did not think there would be any difference of opinion on either side of the House with regard to the Motion. The present arrangements of the college did enable the sons of officers in the army to receive an education at Sandhurst at a very reduced cost, and he was sure it would be satisfactory if the advantages of this college could be extended and the objects of the hon. and gallant Gentleman accomplished. It appeared to him, however, that before the House agreed to Resolutions which would involve a grant of money, it should be clearly ascertained whether or no the object could not be attained by some other means. They ought, for example, to inquire whether the income of the college might not be so appropriated as to secure the object of the hon, and gallant Member without calling upon the public for any assistance of this sort. At present the college was self-supporting. The first class of students there comprised twenty-five cadets, who each paid 40 l. l. l, l. 896 l. l. l. l. l. 897 l. l.,
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he could
 889
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he was opposed to any such grant as was asked for by the hon. and gallant Member (Colonel North). He quite concurred in the view taken by the hon. Under Secretary for War, believing that Sandhurst was able to maintain thrice the students now educated there. The grossest extravagance prevailed in that institution. No less than seventy-three officers, including professors, masters, servants, clerks, and others, were employed to take care of about 180 boys, at an expense of upwards of 13,000 l. l., l. l. 898
 SIR HENRY HALFORD  said, he was at a loss to know on what reasonable ground the appointment of this Committee could be opposed. All that was asked was that the subject should be inquired into, and he thought that demand ought to be granted.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that viewing this matter on public grounds only, he thought the Bill ought to be read a second time. He was quite sure it would provide an admirable harbour of refuge, where one was most wanted, and a great public desideratum. Judging from the opinion of Mr. Rendell, the engineer, who had investigated the site, he had confidence in the utility of this work; and the only question was, with respect to the funds by which it was to be executed. A passing toll was not asked for, and there were strong checks on the operations of the Bill. The Board of Trade had reported on the matter, and the report of Mr. Rendell had just been presented to the Admiralty. The outlay of 800,000 l.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was glad to hear the noble Lord's statement characterised by so much fairness to the Governor of Newfoundland, who had been made the subject of very harsh accusations by other speakers. He had no personal or private feeling with regard to Governor Hamilton; for though in the year 1852 he had recommended him to Her Majesty for the office, he had done so solely on account of the ability and success with which he had conducted a small government in the West Indies. The hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr, Roebuck) had charged him with misconduct and unpopularity, and the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) had referred to several deputations which had come to this country to complain of him. But nobody that had studied the history of Newfoundland for the last twenty-five years would be surprised at the unpopularity of the Governor; for the colony had unhappily been torn with parties, whose strife had been aggravated by religious dissensions. One of the charges against Governor Hamilton was, that he had opposed the introduction of responsible government. But he had only followed the course which all other Governors before him had previously taken. Sir Gaspard le Marchant, one of the ablest Colonial Governors this country had ever possessed, had done precisely the same; and Lord Grey had also refused the colony a responsible government. The Duke of Newcastle had, however, conceded it; and he (Sir J. Pakington) most sincerely hoped that it would succeed; but he must confess he had considerable doubts of it. When a
 891
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY,  in moving the following Resolution—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, it would promote the moral and intellectual improvement of the Working Classes of this Metropolis if the collections of Natural History and of Art, in the British Museum and the National Gallery, were open to the public inspection after Morning Service on Sundays," 916 917 "That it should be a day of greater leisure than other days, and of the suspension, so fir as may be, of the common business of life, I quite allow; but then, I believe that I should have much greater indulgence for recreation on a Sunday than you might have; and if the railway enables the people in the great towns to get out into the country on the Sunday, I should think it a very great good." "No express permission is found in the law of Moses, but that they were at least allowable, to a certain extent, may be inferred from several considerations; as a total abstinence from all amusement would render it a day of gloom and sadness, productive of melancholy rather than of religious comfort, no such enactment, it may be presumed, would be promulgated by a benevolent Deity." "Many writers and preachers condemn without restriction, all secular pleasures on this sacred day: but, that amusements arc, to a certain
 918 "There are two volumes, as it were, both by the same divine Author, spread out before us for our instruction and benefit, from each of which we may learn something of his dealings, so as to apply what we learn to our own practical advantage. One of these may be called the book of Nature, the system of the Created Universe; the other, the Record of Inspiration," "Other things being equal, you will find that those who have had the best general mental training are the best prepared for a correct and profitable reception of religious instruction, and that those who have been taught little or nothing, beside what are called the general principles of religion and morality, not only do not embrace those principles so well as those of more cultivated understanding, but will be still more deficient in the right application of such principles." "I have spoken my mind honestly on the subject; I think it is time the clergy should speak; I will yield to none, in doing all and everything to keep holy the Sabbath-day, and I am quite sure my parishioners will bear me witness in this; but there is a vast difference between keeping this day holy, and that rigid Sabbatarianism which has nigh threatened more than once to bring back the vapid emptiness of the days of the Roundheads: the question is not one of desecration of the Sabbath, but the enlightening, the recreation, the rest, and the elevation of the working man. Lord Derby has done a noble act, and I trust he will be supported therein. I fear nothing of continental desecration, I fear nothing for religion or the Church; open people's minds, and let us, the Clergy, pray God to open ours as well, and the City that is set on a hill can never be hid." 919
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  said, he had brought forward the Motion believing it would be practically useful, but he had no wish to press it, finding the great majority of the House to be of a different opinion. He still believed that his views were in accordance with those of a large portion of the public, and if it were the wish of the House he was quite willing to go to a division. If his Motion were rejected at the present moment, he was sure it would ultimately be carried.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The House, I think, Sir, has pretty well made up its mind how to vote upon these two Motions, but I wish shortly to state the grounds upon which I shall feel it necessary to vote against both. In the first place, this mode of putting questions before the House, of proposing Motions in the shape of abstract Resolutions (though certainly in this case there might have been a difficulty in placing the question directly before the House), is not one which it is desirable should be generally adopted. Without, however, entering into the theological discussion which has been raised to-night, we must all agree that the respectful observance of the Sabbath is a principle which it is highly desirable and necessary to encourage. We must all admit, too, that in proportion as that observance prevails, we may expect to see the people of a country moral and well educated, and in proportion, on the contrary, as it is treated with disrespect, we may expect to see the conduct of the people such as we should not desire it to be. My opinion is that Sunday ought to be a day of rest, of devotion, and of cheerful and innocent recreation. To enforce that strict observance of Sunday for which some persons contend is obviously impossible. That no work should be done on Sunday would stop the whole movement of social existence; but it is impossible for any law to define—and I think it would be inexpedient for Parliament to attempt to pass such a law—the precise degree to which that principle may properly be carried. That must be left to the conscience of each individual. Each man must be left to determine, according to his own position and circumstances, to what degree he can combine the ordinary and necessary occupations of life with what he considers the proper observance of Sunday. But when a matter is brought before Parliament in regard to which the religious feelings of a great portion of the community are deeply affected, it is highly inexpedient that Parliament should by any vote set itself in opposition to that which is the religious feeling of the people. I think Parliament would be doing an injudicious act if, by any vote of its own, or or by any Resolution, it should lead the country to think that it is less mindful of those religious principles which ought to govern the conduct of all men than the great mass of the community themselves are. For these reasons, thinking that the Resolution of the hon. Member for Leices-
 940
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the present discussion was in reality an instance of a remark made in reference to the House of Commons—namely, that it was apt to he exceedingly liberal at one moment, and very niggardly at another. For the establishment at Sandhurst was founded originally upon a much larger scale than that on which it now existed; and there was an annual vote of a considerable amount towards its maintenance. Well, his hon. and gallant Friend (Captain Scobell) had said that if Mr. Hume was still with them he would now, at a time of war, not hesitate to support a vote of the
 900 901
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he willingly accepted the responsibility which his hon. and learned Friend said he ought to bear with respect to the Colonial Department, but he could not admit the reflection which his hon. and learned Friend had cast on the policy of his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) who was not amusing himself at Vienna, nor neglecting any duty at home, but was performing abroad duties of the most important character, and which he had undertaken previous to his having accepted the seals of the Colonial Department. It was not likely, however, that he would long continue absent. With respect to the question put, it was the firm in-
 886
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON;  I have stated that the Austrian Ambassador and Government are perfectly cognizant of what is the policy and what are the intentions of Her Majesty's Government, and there has never been any secrecy on our part, or any doubt entertained on the part of the Government of Austria upon that subject.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, in regard to that Member of the Administration to whom the noble Lord refers, I shall merely say that it has caused me great satisfaction that that hon. Friend of mine has accepted service under the Crown, and that I have the most confident expectations that his great natural abilities and the remarkable energy of his character will render him an ornament to Her Majesty's service, and will enable him to do honour to the memory of his illustrious father. The question of the noble Lord, however, refers to the policy of Her Majesty's Go-
 882
 MR. SPEAKER  and the Members met at the House to go to Church, being the day appointed by Her Majesty's Proclamation for a Fast, in respect of the War with Russia.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that some progress was making towards the settlement of the question. It had been proposed by the law officers of the Crown that a Bill should be brought into Parliament to make an arrangement for granting leases while this dispute was pending. That proposition was, however, at the suggestion of the officers of the Duchy, postponed, in the hope that the negotiations which had been commenced would dispense with the necessity of it.
 MR. FITZROY  said, he had had some experience in the working of the new Act, and he was in possession of some facts that would have controverted the statements of his hon. Friend; but as his hon. Friend had taken the House by surprise in bringing the subject forward to-night, he was not at that moment prepared with the documents. He was prepared yesterday, if the hon. Member could have persuaded the House to make a House to hear him. Of course it was impossible to carry these matters accurately in one's head, but he would state some facts from memory. Now with regard to the provision for the interment of the dead. In the first place, cemeteries had been provided by the City, for the whole of the parishes in the city of London, comprising a population of 120,000. The large parishes of St. Marylebone, St. Pancras, St. George's (Hanover-square), Lambeth, St. Margaret's, and St. Anne's, which contained an aggregate population amounting to 550,000 persons, had also provided new cemeteries. In the country the measure had also been very extensively accepted, and though he could not then repeat the list which he had prepared for use on the former evening, he might say that there were no fewer than from seventy to eighty places which had already obtained ground for cemeteries under the Act. With respect to the Act passed last year, to enable town councils to take measures on the subject, he could only say that the provisions of the Act had been very generally entertained. From the towns of New Windsor, Salisbury, Chichester, and several other towns, applications had been received for the purposes of proceeding under the provisions of the Act. He was surprised to hear from the hon. Member that the parochial system introduced by the Act inflicted any injury or hardship upon the dissenting body. The provision for the ground was made out of the poor rate, and consequently, Dissenters and Churchmen contributed in equal proportions. The question of compensation was a difficult but not a new one; it had been fully dis-
 988
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  seconded the Motion.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, he laboured under the disadvantage of not having been a Member of the House when the measure of last year was discussed. If he had been he certainly would have given his cordial support to it. He stood there now in the position of a Member of the Government connected with Scotland, and he knew that every word he said would have its weight with the people of Scotland. He had heard nothing during the discussion to show that an educational measure was not wanted for Scotland; on the contrary, everything combined to point out that such a measure was absolutely required and would confer the most material benefits. He found, according to a carefully-prepared Report of the statistics of crime in Scotland, that in the year 1854, of the prisoners committed there were 9,259 who could not write their names, and 4,474 who could not read. When the hon. Member for Perthshire (Mr. Stirling) drew a contrast between the Established Church in Scotland and the Established Church in England, he seemed to forget that the Established Church in England was the Church of the majority, whereas the Established Church in Scotland was not the Church of the majority. 1004 1005
 MR. JOHNSTONE  said, he understood the present Bill was substantially the same as that which the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate had brought in last year. If so, there were two omissions from that Bill to which he desired the right hon. and learned Gentleman's attention. In the first place, whilst it made efficient provision for the education of boys, it seemed to leave out of account altogether the girls, for whose education, however, it was surely important that some special provision should be made; and in the next place, it made no provision for the education of the masters. Now, there could be no doubt that a normal school for the education and training of masters was a most essential thing; and he trusted the right hon. and learned Gentleman would take into consideration this as well as the other point to which he had directed his attention.
 MR. LINDSAY  said he would take that opportunity of calling the attention of the House to the administrative system of the transport service. In doing so, he would studiously avoid all irrelevant matter, and all points with which he knew the House to be familiar. He would make no reference to what had passed before the Committee now sitting upstairs, and still less would he attempt to anticipate any decision at which that Committee was likely
 1017 l. "He would venture to assert that in the whole service of the Crown there had hardly ever been evinced a greater degree of profligate extravagance in the expenditure of money, carelessness and ignorance in the making of contracts, slovenliness in their employment of vessels, and confusion and mismanagement as to their departures from and arrivals in the ports of this country. In the region where they were employed their utility had been marred by the utter want of arrangement in everything that concerned the business of embarking, carrying, and landing cargoes, so familiar to all persons engaged in mercantile concerns in this country. When first the war broke out, and it was thought necessary to have a large quantity of shipping in readiness, ships came forward so quickly that the whole trade of the country seemed to be laid for the moment at the feet of the Crown." [ See Hansard, "Government made engagements with the owners of the transports on terms that astonished the merchants, and showed them to be utterly ignorant of the manner in which business of this kind ought to be conducted. The tonnage was bargained and paid for on the builders' measurement, though every one was aware that that was merely nominal."—[ Ibid. 1018 "He would suggest that the surest and most economical plan to follow in hiring steamships was to make a contract with the owner, including the price of coal, but taking the power of deducting say 50 s. Ibid. Telegraph, "The Government being anxious to remedy this crying evil as speedily as possible, hired a ship to proceed to the Crimea with roasted coffee. For this purpose the  Telegraph l., l. Ibid. 1019 1020 Golden Fleece, l. 1021 Germania Hermes l. l. 1022 l. l. 1023 "I have been sending the last three days to look for the claim and cannot find it. You ought
 1024 "the rope was sent up about three months before, and it could not be paid. Can we have the messing by sending another account, minus the rope?" "The messing requires the vouchers, which are with the claim. The office is being cleared out and got in order, and I hope your claims will be found and got forward, but it is too great a waste of time specially to go looking for them." "We cannot pay for officers we know nothing of, so we sent the voucher to the War Office, and have not yet got their reply." l. s. d. l. s. d. 1025 l. s. d. l. l. 1026 l. l. 1027
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he had not intended to cast any reflection upon that gentleman's abilities. All he wished to do was, to explain the Government system of dealing with accounts.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that when the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Graham) stated that he had sanctioned the formation of a Transport Board, because the superintendence of the business of the transport service was too arduous a duty for one man to discharge, he had—unconsciously, no doubt—laid bare the real secret of the errors and inefficiency of that board. A division of labour involved a division of responsibility—the one could not be obtained without the other. So long as they continued this system of divided responsibility, so long would they have the duties of the service inefficiently performed. He was glad to have heard it stated in the course of the debate that administrative reforms were contemplated; he trusted that amongst those reforms they would have to reckon the discontinuance of that system which had existed in this country from time immemorial—namely, that of placing civilians at the head of the naval and military departments. They might rely on it, so long as that system was maintained, that the duties of neither the one nor the other would be efficiently conducted. He cared not how great might be the administrative ability of any individual, if he was not thoroughly conversant with all the details of the profession over which he was appointed to preside—whether it was from his habits, his education, or his pursuits—all his efforts on behalf of the service must prove abortive. The present system was to place men at the head of the army who were not capable of managing a corporal's guard, and at the head of the navy persons incapable of taking charge of a coaster. He could mention the following cases as illustrative of the position which he had assumed; and he would do so the more readily as he saw the right hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle in his place. It would be in the recollection of the House that upon a former occasion, when the right hon. Baronet the late First Lord of the Admiralty having replied to a question which had been put to him—and he (Mr. Bentinck) would direct particular attention to the fact, that the statement was volunteered, and showed that the right hon. Baronet considered the fact of im-
 1044 Prince Prince Prince Prince Perseverance Prince; Perseverance 1045 Kangaroo  Kangaroo
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, the hon. Gentleman had chosen a very unfortunate case in illustration of his argument against entrusting the administration of the army and navy to civilians, because it so happened that the right hon. Baronet who lately presided over the Admiralty, did make every inquiry into the point whether or not the cables of the unfortunate  Prince Cyclops, 1046
 COLONEL KNOX  said, he had not intended to address the House, but, after the "bumptious" speech of the Secretary to the Admiralty on a previous occasion, he could not help saying a few words, though he observed that the hon. Gentleman was not now present. The hon. Gentleman had challenged any one to deny that the Admiralty had not been the best managed of all the departments. Now, he believed that it was to the mismanagement of the transport service all the miseries of the campaign in the Crimea were owing. He wished to make a few observations as to the transport service, and more particularly with reference to one vessel which had been mentioned—the  Kangaroo. 1048 l.,
 COLONEL KNOX  said he must apologise for having referred to the Secretary of the Admiralty, but was quite unaware of the cause of his absence.
 MR. A. KINNAIRD  said, he was cordially in favour of the Bill, but would suggest that Members opposite might give up the point respecting the power of the presbytery in the management of the schools, and unite with him (Mr. Kinnaird) and his Friends in getting some security for religious teaching in the schools. The Bill might then, he thought, pass harmoniously through the House.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he cordially congratulated his right hon. and learned
 1008
 LORD ELCHO  said, he had not anticipated that the introduction of this Bill by his right hon. and learned Friend would have led to any discussion. He did not rise for the purpose of prolonging the debate by entering at all into the merits of the Bill or of the question of education in general, but, as his hon. Friend opposite (Mr. C. Bruce) had expressed regret that the right hon. and learned Gentleman should have brought in a Bill similar to that which was introduced last year, he (Lord Elcho), as the representative of a Scotch county which was supposed to feel an interest in the question, felt called upon to express the satisfaction he felt that the Lord Advocate had brought in a Bill which, though it might differ in detail from that introduced last year, was in principle the same. He apprehended that the principle of the Bill was this—that it endeavoured to establish, as far as possible, in Scotland a system of universal education. In saying this he did not wish to be misunderstood. He was not at all prepared to deny the great benefits which Scotland had derived from the established schools of that country. His hon. Friend the Member for Perthshire (Mr. Stirling) told them that the difference between the Established Church in England and Scotland was this—that, whereas in Scotland there had been a system of schools under the establishment, in England there had been none. 1002 odium theologicum 1003
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, he objected to the measure, because it was one which proposed to establish a system of education in Scotland the very opposite to that which had prevailed up to the present time—namely, a system without any guarantee for religious instruction. The right hon. and learned Lord Advocate, in his eloquent speech, seemed to convey a belief that the party with whom he (Mr. Scott) had the honour of acting were adverse to the wider extension of education, but this imputation he utterly repudiated. The right hon. and learned Gentleman had alluded to the measure of the hon. Member for Perthshire (Mr. Stirling) as one that was not calculated to do service in the cause of education; and, like a skilful debater, attempted to show that those on the opposite side of the House were the assailants, and that he was the defendant. But the very opposite was the fact; for the right hon. and learned Gentleman was the assailant in endeavouring to upset that good system of education which at present existed in Scotland, instead of trying to perpetuate and improve it. The right hon. and learned Lord Advocate said he deprecated all things partaking of a sectarian spirit, and asked them to take common ground. But why did he not take common ground? Those Members on the opposite side of the House were willing to go into a common field with him. Having disclaimed opposition in an apparent spirit of fairness, the right hon. and learned Gentleman was, however, indisposed to go one inch towards meeting them upon common ground, when they were willing to go hand in hand with him. Why, he asked, needlessly abolish the guarantee for the orthodoxy of religious opinions? When the noble Lord (Viscount Duncan) speaks of the amount of crime which existed, they granted it; but he would ask the noble Lord whether he really meant to say that it was in the agricultural districts that the crime was so excessive? He would venture to say that the noble Lord would not assert anything of the kind. What the noble Lord meant, no doubt, to say was, that in those parts where the Bill did not apply there was a large amount of ignorance and crime; and into those parts they were all willing to enter, with the view of doing all that was possible towards the diminution of
 1006 1007
 MR. ELLIOT  said, it had been proposed by the right hen. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Walpole) that the Bill of the Lord Advocate should apply to towns and to thickly populated parts of the country
 1013
 LORD NAAS  said, he wished to call attention to some points of the Bill. The Lord Lieutenant had power to prohibit burials in all towns in Ireland, but the Bill gave no power to provide new burial-grounds. Great injustice might, therefore, be committed, as it might be difficult in such case to provide proper places, unless powers were given to boards of guardians or town councils.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he hoped that the Bill would be treated with the consideration befitting its importance, and that a more convenient time would be fixed for its discussion than had been the case with regard to the Bill of last year.
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  said, besides the Established Church and Free Church there was another important body in Scotland, called the United Presbyterians. They were generally disposed to support the Bill of the right hon. and learned Lord last year, but there were one or two points on which they felt some objection. One was, the constitution of the Educational Board, which they considered to be too largely nominated by the Government, and he trusted the same error would not be imported into the present Bill. He was glad to learn that the denominational plan, which was likewise very much objected to by many religious persons, was not to be introduced into the Bill now proposed. He believed that the Bill would be received with favour by a large body in Scotland.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he considered the question as to the burial of the dead of so important a nature, that he thought it right to take this opportunity to ask the Government how they intended to deal with the 60,000 deaths that annually occurred in London. There were but eight cemeteries in the neighbourhood of London, which could not take more than 20,000 annually. There had been 500 burial grounds closed in the country and 150 within the bills of mortality. He considered that the Dissenters were unjustly dealt with, with regard to consecrated ground. In one case that had come under his knowledge a charge was made
 986 l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he had great pleasure in seconding the Motion of the noble Viscount, and at the same time to express the thanks of Gentlemen who sat
 984
 MR. COWAN  said, that there existed in Edinburgh schools which had been established by funds taken some ten or twelve years ago from Heriot's and other hospitals, in which a most excellent education was given, which he was most anxious to see extended through the length and breadth of Scotland. There no test was required, and the schoolmaster was selected not only for the information he possessed, but for his capacity to impart it. He heard with great pleasure that it was intended to raise the salary of the teachers, because it was, in his opinion, a disgrace to a nation that its instructors should receive barely the remuneration which its common labourers received. Even the rooms of their dwelling-houses had been restricted to two, whilst the maximum salary of the shoolmaster was fixed at 34 l.
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, that as a Scotch Member, he could not help expressing his feelings of gratification at being associated in the representation
 1000 1001 l. l.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : I am sorry, Sir, to say that the absence of my hon. friend the Secretary of the Admiralty is owing to the death of a near relative, and therefore I do think that before hon. Members indulge in such observations as we have just heard they should take a little trouble to ascertain whether there is any just ground for them. The hon. and gallant Member has made an unjust attack upon Admiral Boxer, for every report which the Government have received shows a considerable improvement in the state of the harbour at Balaklava since the appointment of Admiral Boxer to that post. I will not detain the House at any length, or wander into those points which have occupied the attention of hon. Members, but which have little or no connexion with the transport service; but, on the whole, I must express my thanks to the hon. Member for Tynemouth (Mr. Lindsay) for the testimony he has given with respect to the efficiency of the management of the transport service, and especially of the officer under whose charge the transports were taken up; and I will say, that a better public servant than that officer the Government or the country does not possess. Some observations have been made with respect to the high rate at which the troops have been conveyed, but the House will
 1049 Prince. 1050
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he would inquire into the case.
 MR. CAYLEY  said, the denial by the late First Lord of the Admiralty, of the anecdote to which the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had last spoken had referred, ought to have been made five months ago, when all such statements were said to be untrue; but there was no mismanagement to which the country would not now give credit. The right hon. Gentleman admitted mismanagement generally, but he always defended particulars—apparently acting in every special case upon the maxim of the demagogue Wilkes, never to defend himself against a charge upon the hustings, but to deny it  in toto. par excellence, The Times 1037 l., l. s. Emperor Arabia, l. l. l. 1038 Telegraph 1039 The Times The Times The Times The Times The Times The Times The Times, The Times 1040 The Times "We don't require any additional evidence. We have the evidence of every person who writes from the Crimea, and of every person who arrives in this country from the Crimea. We have ample evidence of all which your letters appear to contain." The Times "The task is so odious, of inculpating persons at head-quarters, although the evidence appears to us complete, and if the facts can be substantiated, it is at this juncture so doubtful whether, upon the whole, the public service would not rather be disserved than served by the exposure, that we refrain from availing ourselves of the communication." The Times The Times The Times The Times 1041 l. s. d. Resolute 1042 Cyclops, 1043
 MR. HORSMAN  said, the suggestion was a very proper one. In the English Act there was a provision which it would certainly be desirable also to have in the Act relating to Ireland, giving powers, whenever one burial-ground was shut up, to open another, the rate payers themselves paying the expenses, and electing a representative board, with power to make all necessary arrangements. He would communicate with the authorities in Ireland, and if there was a feeling that the noble Lord's suggestion should be carried out, he should be glad to introduce a clause to that effect.
 MR. FRENCH  said, he must complain of the system of placing Englishmen in every office of importance in Ireland. He had looked over some of the appointments, and he found that the Lord Lieutenant was an Englishman, the Chief Secretary for Ireland was an Englishman, the Under Secretary, Colonel Larcom, was an Englishman, the Commander of the Forces in Ireland was an Englishman, the Archbishop of Dublin was an Englishman, the Inspector General was a Scotchman, the Second Inspector was an Englishman, the Chief Commissioner of Poor Laws was an Englishman, and the Second Commissioner of
 985
 MR. G. DUNDAS  said, he could give the First Lord of the Admiralty an instance of stores being improperly stowed. The  Tynemouth Tynemouth
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he by no means thought that the subject was closed, and he considered that the House ought to be much obliged to his hon. Friend (Mr. Pellatt) for having taken so much trouble to bring the subject before them. His hon. Friend had in effect been counted out twice upon this motion.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he begged to ask whether it was true that a gentleman, Mr. A'Court, had been appointed Special Income Tax Commissioner for Ireland? There were on the Irish redundant list three gentlemen under forty-eight years of age, who were fully qualified to fill the situation vacant by the removal of Mr. O'Flaherty, and who were receiving, one, Mr. Norman Savage, 400 l. l. l.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he wished to make a few remarks on the subject of the transport service. He did not, however, wish to speak harshly of the errors of the past; he preferred looking forward to the prospect of our learning from those errors wisdom for the future. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle (Sir J. Graham) had mentioned a single instance in which he had advanced a man on the score of merit; but he (Captain Scobell) wished to see that ground of advancement universally adopted. During the last four years there had been at the Admiralty four First Lords, there had been several changes in the junior Lords, and there had been three or four Secretaries. How could a Board work well with such numerous and rapid changes? He confessed he felt surprised that the English transports in the Black Sea had not volunteered to carry out a greater number of French troops; and he believed that if those transports had been properly managed, they would have performed double the work they had done. The great source of the failures in the transport system was, that there had been no person to superintend the stowage of the different vessels. The consequence of that want of superintendence was, that no one knew where anything ought to be put, and of course no one could know where anything was to be had on the arrival of a ship at its destination. Most hon. Members would have heard the anecdote of the vessel loaded with boots being despatched from Balaklava to Constantinople for shoes—[Sir J. GRAHAM: That is altogether untrue.]—and in other instances, which were well authenticated, vessels had been sent for goods of which there was an abundance at the time at Balaklava. But the worst feature in the whole of the transport service was the miserable provision, or rather want of provision, for the conveyance of the sick and wounded. These poor men were huddled together in the vessels in a manner worse than cattle. With respect to the comparative advantages of employing a board or a single individual, he would observe, that although an individual could not himself do everything, there was no reason why he should not have the assistance of others, without the establishment of a board; and it appeared to him that greater efficiency would be secured by entrusting the supreme management to
 1036
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he wished to ask the hon. Gentleman the Clerk of the Ordnance whether any trenching tools of a superior description to those originally sent out have been forwarded to the army of the Crimea, or whether the Board of Ordnance is still prepared to maintain that the tools originally sent out were of the best description that could be obtained in this country?
 COLONEL CLIFFORD  said, the House was no doubt aware that by the Bill which was passed, during the Government of Lord Derby, to embody the militia, the then existing provisions on that subject remained unaltered; the militia were to be embodied only in case of invasion, or imminent danger thereof. On the breaking out of the war, it was thought expedient
 978
 MR. H. BROWN  said, he had some experience in the transport service, and had not heard a single fact adduced, in the course of the present discussion, on which the House could arrive at a conclusion. The hon. Gentleman who had brought the measure forward had not pointed out a single remedy for the evil of which he complained. He believed the great fault of the system pursued by the Government was, that they paid for time, instead of for services performed. The French Government made the essence of the contract the service, and therefore the work was done well and quickly. He had now several vessels in the service of the French Government, and he could speak to the superiority of their system. The French Government gave a premium of 1 l. 1047 l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. BELL  said, he had to ask the hon. and learned Attorney General whether any and what progress had been made towards a settlement of the rival claims of the Duchy of Cornwall and the Woods and Forests to minerals below high-water mark; also, if any arrangement has been proposed by which leases or licences can be granted pending the settlement of these claims to parties desirous of working mines in the disputed localities, or what prevents such an arrangement being entered into?
 MR. JOHN M'GREGOR  said, he had no hesitation in saying he believed that the great majority of the people of Scotland deplored the loss of the Bill of last Session. He had great confidence in that love of justice which characterised Englishmen, and he was confident that, if they would only attend to the arguments that would be used in reference to the present measure, they would vote in favour of it. The existing system of parochial education was utterly inadequate to the wants of the people of Scotland, and he hoped that the English Members would not again be found to vote against an improved measure of education.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that the clause to which the hon. Gentleman had referred had been considerably modified.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE,  in reply, said, be thanked the House for their candid and temperate reception of his measure, and he was certain that nothing would give him greater pleasure than to adapt it, so as to obtain the support of the hon. Gentlemen who had spoken, so far as he consistently could. When the Bill was printed it would be seen in what way he proposed to deal with the difficulties which had been suggested, and he should be glad to receive any suggestions or communications on the matter. With regard to normal schools, his notion of the perfection of an educational measure was that it should include some provision for them; but upon consideration of the whole subject, the Government had thought it better to start this educational system by itself, and afterwards to engraft upon it a provision for normal schools. He was sorry the right
 1015
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to provide for the Education of the People of Scotland, he would beg to remark in the first place that the Bill was the same in substance as the measure he had had the honour of bringing before the House last year. He did not mean to say that some qualifications had not been introduced in the present Bill, but he should deceive the House if he did not state that the measure was substantially the same as the former one. He did not think, however, it was necessary for him to make any apology for again laying on the table of the House a Bill that had been last year rejected. No doubt that rejection was a matter of considerable disappointment, both to himself and all the lovers of education in Scotland; but the disappointment was qualified by the consideration that, at all events, it had not arisen from any fault or indisposition on the part of the Scotch Members. The proposition for its rejection of the Bill was carried by the votes of English Members, and mainly by the votes of hon. Gentlemen opposite; for the Scotch Members divided in the proportion of thirty-six to fourteen in favour of the Bill. It was made to a great extent a party question, and the ground on which the rejection took place was this, and this alone—that, in proposing a measure for the education of the people of Scotland, they did not continue the exclusive superintendence of the Established Church in Scotland, and the exclusive privilege of members of that denomination to teach in the schools. He now brought forward the measure with the expectation, which was not unreasonable, that on this occasion he might perhaps be more successful. Since the commencement of the Session a Bill for the education of the people of England and Wales had been introduced by a right hon. Baronet on the other side (Sir J. Pakington), for which he was entitled to receive the thanks and gratitude of every philanthropic man in the country, and the right hon. Baronet had made it impossible for any man to stand up and maintain that the education of the people was a thing dangerous to the institutions of the country,
 990 "Incedimus per ignes Suppositos cineri doloso." 991 992 993 l., l.
 MR. WILSON  said, that the hon. Gentleman mistook in supposing that the Special Commissionership which had been just filled up was an Irish one. It had nothing to do with Ireland. When the income tax was extended to Ireland, there were two Special Commissioners appointed, but after a year it was found that they were not required, and one was appointed to an office in England, and the other's office was abolished. Sometime ago, a Commissionership of Inland Revenue became vacant, the salary of which was 1,200 l. l.,
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, nothing was easier than to find fault with the heads of departments, but it was very difficult for the heads of departments to prevent mistakes on the part of their subordinates. What was wanted was a reorganisation of the departments in such a way as to put an end to the blunders which Ministers of State could not possibly prevent. Several irregularities in the mode of conducting business had taken place, and the manner in which the various supplies were put on board ship for the East never could be justified. Articles which ought to have been shipped in one vessel had been stowed in several. He was convinced that any contractor would have managed matters very differently, and would have taken care that necessary articles never should be missing. He did not blame the Minister at the head of any department for the mismanagement, but he maintained that there should be a different organisation of the departments. He thought the country would be grateful to the hon. Gentleman who had brought this matter forward; and he hoped they would all join in helping any Government—not the present one especially—that would exert themselves properly, and oppose those who would not endeavour to bring about an honourable peace.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that while the camp was at Chobham, he believed a Commission was appointed to sit upon the quality of the tools; and the question which he wished now to put was, whether such a Commission did sit, and whether they did not decide against the tools, and whether the tools on which they so decided had been sent to the Crimea?
 MR. VANCE  said, if there was any certainty that those persons would get employment under the new Act, he would withdraw his amendment.
 MR. VANCE  said, he wished to move a clause for the purpose of compensating clerks, sextons, and beadles, for the loss of fees and sums now received in respect of interments. He was afraid there would be some difficulty in giving the power of compensation to vestries in Ireland in these cases, as those bodies were for the most part Roman Catholics.
 MR. MALINS  said, he had had many applications made to him by clergymen who had accepted benefices within the metropolis on the understanding that they were to receive certain emoluments for the support of their families, and whose income had been seriously diminished by the operation of the Act in question. For instance, one reverend gentleman had been appointed to a living of 700 l. l.
 MR. GREGSON  said, he begged to inquire of the noble Viscount the First Lord of the Treasury, with reference to the notification from the Board of Trade of the 12th instant, published in the  London Gazette 979
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he did not rise for the purpose of saying anything against the introduction of the Bill, but merely to suggest whether, with the view of avoiding those hostile collisions, especially with regard to religious questions, which had been referred to by Scotch Members, it would not be worth while to draw a distinction that had been recommended by a noble Lord in "another place," who was perfectly well acquainted with the state of Scotland, and was one of the greatest advocates of popular education in either House of Parliament—a distinction between the education required for the more rural parts of Scotland, and the education required for the large towns of that country. Had such a distinction been drawn, instead of meeting with any opposition on the part of his (Mr. Walpole's) Scotch friends, the right hon. and learned Gentleman would have received their cordial support. But if by bringing in this Bill they introduced the discussion of those very religious differences which they desired to see abolished, surely the blame must rest rather with those who caused the discussion upon such religious differences than with hon. Members on that (the Opposition) side of the House, who were as anxious as hon. Gentlemen on the Ministerial benches to reconcile those differences as far as they possibly could, and still carry into effect the general object of extending education wherever education was required. He entirely agreed with the observation of the
 1009 l. l., l. 1010
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he rose, pursuant to notice, "to draw the attention of the House to the state of the war in the Black Sea." We were now pretty much where we were when the war broke out, and had made little or no progress—a state of things which he attributed, in a great degree, to the absence of that extraneous assistance which this country ought to have had, and might have had, if the proper steps had been taken with reference to the Caucasus. That independent country, which had the power and the disposition to assist us, which was as large as England and Wales, and four times the size of the Crimea, was held in check by a line of fortresses along the whole frontier between the Caucasus and Russia. Now, if we had but taken Anapa, and thus acquired the command of the Straits of Kertch, we should have gained an important military station, and the Circassians would have been prepared to show their sympathy for their co-religionists the Turks, and for their compatriots, the Tartars of the Crimea. Anapa gave to Russia the entire command of the Caucasus, and, once in our possession, we should have been assisted by the irregular horsemen of that country, inferior to none in the world, and much more than a match for the Cossacks. What an important advantage it would have been to the allied forces in the East to have been aided by 50,000 of these horsemen! To the parts of Russia south
 1033 l.
 MR. BAXTER  said, as the most recently elected Scotch Member, he must beg to claim the indulgence usually extended by the House to new Members. He would shortly state the reason why he troubled the House on the present occasion, which was, that he had always taken a very deep interest in the question now under consideration. The right hon. and learned Lord Advocate needed not to make any apology for calling attention to this subject, for if there was one question more than another—apart from the war—in which the people of Scotland took an interest, which almost engrossed their attention, it was this most important one of education for the people. They looked upon it as of the greatest and most vital importance. He believed that throughout Scotland there was an universal wish to have it settled, and he should be greatly disappointed if the proposal which had just been submitted for their consideration would not be hailed with the greatest satisfaction there—a proposal which, notwithstanding what had fallen from the hon.
 999 odium theologicum
 MR. MONSELL  said, that in order to give a satisfactory answer to that question he must first call attention to the fact that a large proportion of the tools supplied to regiments were supplied, in the main, by the colonels of the regiments, not by the Board of Ordnance. A certain portion of the regular troops were supplied by the Board of Ordnance, and the whole of the engineering troops were supplied by them. In May last, circumstances arose which gave occasion to the statement which he (Mr. Monsell) made at that time. A complaint was made by a board of officers of the Guards, who were then stationed at Scutari, of the quality of the tools. At that time the patterns of the tools in the Tower and at Woolwich were inspected, in his presence, by Sir John Burgoyne and several persons who were presumed capable of forming a sound opinion on the subject, and they declared them to be excellent. He found that the tools had been
 980 981
 MR. MONSELL  said, in answer to the question of the hon. and learned Gentleman, he never heard of the Commission; but if the hon. and learned Gentleman would be so good as to renew his question on Monday, he would, in the mean time, inform himself upon the subject.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, he thought that there could be little difficulty in framing a general measure of education for a country in which 95 per cent of the whole population were of one religion. He trusted, however, that the right hon. and learned Lord would so shape his Bill as to secure the support of the remainder—the Roman Catholics, who in Edinburgh, Glasgow, Banffshire, Aberdeenshire, and part of Morayshire, formed a numerous and important minority. The right hon. and learned Lord lost his Bill last year by nine votes, and it would be his own fault if he lost it this year, for he had only, in framing its provisions, to have regard for the 5 per cent, as well as the 95 per cent of the population of Scotland, and the measure would be perfectly safe.
 CAPTAIN STUART  had to ask the Secretary for War, whether the remainder of the 6 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he thought the question referred to by the hon. Member was an important one, and deserving the attention of the House.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  replied, that the bounty of 6 l.
 MR. BOWYER  said, he begged leave to ask the First Lord of the Treasury whether Her Majesty's Government intend, previous to bringing before Parliament the Supplemental Treaty, by which Her Majesty engages to lend 2,000,000 l. 982
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, in reply to the question of the hon. and gallant Member, I beg to state that by the Act of last Session, 17  Vict.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Very well; but I think that the two cases I have mentioned, that of the accountant general and his deaf and dumb clerk, show that the patronage of the Admiralty has not gone by favour. Now, I come to the subject
 1029 1030 1031 1032 l.,
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Sir, before my right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Admiralty addresses any observations to the House in reply to what has fallen from my hon. Friend the Member for Tynemouth, perhaps, as I have been referred to, I may be excused if I offer a few remarks to the House. I shall commence my observations by referring to one or two remarks made by my hon. Friend towards the close of his speech. My hon. Friend has stated that administrative reform is necessary, and in dealing with that observation I shall confine myself to the subject of the navy. I do not mean to say that administrative reforms in other departments might not be made, for I am disposed to think that they are necessary, and have been felt to be necessary, and that various Governments have endeavoured to apply remedies; but, not to enter into that subject, I think that, as regards the navy, I may say without vanity that the remarks of my hon. Friend would have been much more applicable twenty years ago than now. At that time I used my best endeavours, acting on the part of the Government of Lord Grey, and with his concurrence, to apply an efficient cure to what then appeared to me to be abuses in the administration of the naval department, and I think that the remedy then applied has served to maintain the efficiency of that department at the present day. My hon. Friend, in referring to our general system of administration, has said—and I hope he did not apply the observation to the naval departments—that it is rotten at the core. Well, Sir, that is a harsh expression. He has likewise dwelt particularly on the system of patronage as an indication of rottenness, and on that point I may say that it does so happen that the present accountant general of the navy, Mr. Bromley, one of the most able servants the country possesses, was only twenty years ago a humble clerk in a dockyard, with a salary under 200 l. 1028 l.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, the hon. Member for Tynemouth (Mr. Lindsay) had referred to the general state of the departments connected with the civil service of the country. It was impossible for anybody who had watched the course of events recently not to have seen that, upon the one hand, immense exertions had been made by Government and by the country to carry on the war in which we were engaged; and that, upon the other hand, in spite of the exertions which had been made, there had existed, and there still existed, in the country a great and growing dissatisfaction at the failures which had taken place. These two facts, though seemingly irreconcilable, might be easily reconciled by the consideration of one simple point. There was an old saying, that "A dead fly made the ointment of the apothecary stink," and in the same manner small failures brought continually under the notice of the people threw discredit upon great transactions. He was confident that many of the failures which had taken place would have been passed over more easily, would have excited much less attention, and would have been excused as the natural incidents of so great and novel an undertaking, if it had not been that circumstances attending other adventures in which the Government had been engaged had given the people an
 1034 l. l. 1035
 MR. STIRLING  said, he should, in the first instance, wish to comment upon the concluding observations of his right hon. and learned Friend. The right hon. and learned Lord said that in dealing with this question he had not been influenced by any peculiar leaning towards the Church to which he belonged. Now, he (Mr. Stirling) desired to enter upon the new struggle
 994 995 996 997 998
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that by the first Bill it was proposed to make provision for giving compensation; but the proposition was not agreed to by the House, and the other Bill was brought in without any provision for compensation at all. It might be hard upon some persons, but he thought it was the duty of the parishes, if of anybody, to compensate the
 989
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, Her Majesty's Government have no doubt of the competency of Sardinia to make the arrangement which she has entered into for paying the interest of time amount so to be advanced; and I have no particular information to lay before the House touching the condition or finances of that country, which are matters of general notoriety, and of which the hon. and learned Gentleman may readily obtain information.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that the number of Commissioners had been reduced, and there having been a vacancy, this gentleman seemed to him a very proper person to be appointed.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he did not rise to answer the speech of the hon. Member, but merely to answer one part of it which resembled a question—namely, as to where the dead of large towns were to be buried? His answer was that no burial grounds had been shut up in the metropolis or any other large towns, unless on its being shown that it was dangerous to health. In the greater number of parishes
 987
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I must congratulate my right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate and the House, on the tone and temper which has pervaded the discussion that has ensued upon the Motion he has made. I think there ap-
 1011 1012
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the first Burial Bill that was passed by Parliament gave compensation to the clergymen, the sextons, and others who might be sufferers by the closing of burial-grounds, and that compensation was to be charged on the poor rates; but in subsequent Sessions Parliament altered their views on the subject, and in the Bill which was brought
 1016
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that the information which the Government had received on the subject was vague and imperfect. It appeared that the local government at Amoy had granted certain privileges to British vessels engaged in the coasting trade; but Her Majesty's Government did not know whether the privilege extended beyond the five ports, or was confined to them. It did not appear to be granted by Imperial authority, but simply by the local authority of Amoy. The Government had received no information as to whether goods conveyed by British shipping would be liable to a higher rate of duty than goods carried in Chinese ships.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  acquainted the House, That he had a Message from HER MAJESTY to this House signed by Her Majesty: And he  presented "VICTORIA R. "HER MAJESTY thinks it right to acquaint the House of Commons that She has concluded, in concert with His Majesty the Emperor of the French, a Military Convention with His Majesty the King of Sardinia, whereby His Majesty the King of Sardinia engages to furnish and keep up, for the requirements of the present War, a body of Fifteen Thousand Men, organised as is therein stipulated; and, with a view to facilitate the execution of the said Military Convention, Her Majesty has, by a Supplementary Convention concluded with His Majesty the King of Sardinia, undertaken to recommend to Her Parliament to enable Her to advance, by way of loan, to His Majesty the King of Sardinia, the sum of One Million Pounds sterling, of which sum, Five Hundred Thousand Pounds sterling shall be paid by Her Majesty as soon as possible after the assent
 983 "HER MAJESTY has further engaged to recommend to Her Parliament, to enable Her, if the War should not have been brought to a close at the expiration of Twelve Months after payment of the first instalment of the above-mentioned Loan, to advance to His Majesty the King of Sardinia, in the same proportions, a like sum of One Million of Pounds sterling. "The Government of His Majesty the King of Sardinia undertakes to pay interest on such Loan or Loans, at the rate of Four per cent per annum, of which one per cent per annum shall be for a Sinking Fund, the said interest to be calculated and payable in the manner in the said Convention stipulated. "HER MAJESTY has directed a Copy of these Conventions to be laid before the House of Commons, and She relies on the zeal and public spirit of the House of Commons to concur in enabling Her to make good the engagements which She has contracted with Her Ally." Ordered Monday
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he rose to make a proposition, which he was sure would be assented to by all who had enjoyed the advantage of hearing on Wednesday that most eloquent and sensible discourse which was preached before the House of Commons at St. Margaret's, Westminster, by the Rev. Henry Melvin. That sermon must have so impressed itself on the minds of those who heard it as to make any further record of it unnecessary than that which remained in their memory; but considering the admirable nature of the topics selected, and the excellent manner in which they were handled by the rev. preacher, the House would think it desirable that not merely should their thanks be given to him, but that it should be printed for the benefit of those who had not the advantage (which most of them had enjoyed who were now present) of hearing the sermon. He therefore moved that the thanks of the House be offered to the rev. gentleman, and that he be requested to print the sermon.
 The CHAIRMAN then read the Resolution, which was an echo of the Message from the Throne.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, until I heard the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just sat down, I felt that the course of this debate or conversation was eminently satisfactory in one respect, namely, in this, that although different views have been taken by different Gentlemen of the proposal now made by Her Majesty's Government, some of them supporting, and others of them on one ground or another questioning or even objecting to this proposal, yet not a word has been said by any Gentleman in any quarter of the House which could tend to give a false impression respecting the feelings of this country towards Sardinia. And if I rise to offer a few observations to the Committee, it is because I think that the speech of the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, if no comment were made upon it in a different sense, would convey an inaccurate impression to the country respecting the feelings of hon. Members in this House. The hon. Member for Malton (Mr, Evelyn Denison) has stated, and stated well, the special claim that Sardinia has on our sympathy and respect. In the midst of events, in many respects far from favourable to the progress of constitutional government—at a period when many nations have had the prize of freedom
 1086 1087 1088 1089 1090 bonâ fide l. 1091 bona fides 1092
 MR. DlSRAELI : Sir, I have never listened to anything in this House with more surprise than the language of the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down. Does the hon. Gentleman mean to say, when he expresses his feelings of astonishment and regret at what he heard the utter, that he really expected a Motion of this kind would have been passed in silence in this House? Why, Sir, what is this Motion? it is a Motion for a Vote of the public money to the amount of 2,000,000 l. 1095 1096 1097 1098 1099
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL said, he thought that the House ought clearly to know how this matter stood, for when that was explained he thought, that all hon. Gentlemen would agree with him that it would be most inconvenient any longer to delay the second reading of the Bill. The present condition of the law was most unsatisfactory and perplexing, and matters were in a very anomalous position, arising out of the permission which had been accorded to certain classes of publications to omit the affixing of the stamp. There was no doubt but that, in the first instance, the stamp duty upon newspapers had been imposed for political purposes; of late, however, that view of the matter could hardly be maintained. Hence it was that after a time Government had permitted certain periodicals, which strictly fell within the intention of the Stamp Act, but which did not come up to the popular idea of a newspaper, to stamp only a portion of their impression. Such periodicals were addressed specially to certain subjects, almost, indeed, to certain classes of readers exclusively. As instances, he might name the  Athenæum, Literary Gazette, Musical Times, Builder, Jurist, The Racing Times, The Police Gazette, 1130 1131 l. 1132 The Times, 1133 d. d. 1134 Satirist 1135
 SIR FRANCIS BARING : Great, Sir, as is the pleasure with which I always
 1136 l., 1137 l. bonaâ fide l. 1138 d. d.; 1139 d. d. d., l., l., l. l. l. l., l. l. 1140 Punch, 1141
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I do not accuse my hon. Friend the Member for East Kent of any intention to make a factious Motion, or of being influenced by motives of party opposition, or of endeavouring by means of the Amendment which he has submitted to the House to achieve a party or political triumph, nor should I have had any difficulty in acceding to it if I could have brought myself to look upon this question as exclusively, or even principally, a financial question. When I introduced the measure I was under the impression that I was giving effect to the declared and recorded opinion of the House in the Session of 1854. Let me call the attention of the House to the words of that Resolution—
 "That it is the opinion of this House that the Laws in reference to the Periodical Press and Newspaper Stamp are ill defined, and unequally enforced; and it appears to this House that the subject demands the early consideration of Parliament." l. 1154 secundum animum imponentis, 1155 ex officio 1156 d. d. l. l., 1157 data, l. l., d. 1158
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD said, he had great doubts as to the principle of this Bill, which would transfer the trial of one-half the criminals who now came before the Judges at assizes and quarter sessions to magistrates in petty sessions. If that principle were once acceded to, on what ground could they refuse to go still further, and give to magistrates summary jurisdiction over all cases of simple larceny without exception? A proposal had been
 1168 s. s. d.,
 MR. K1NNAIRD said, he viewed with the highest, admiration the conduct of the Government of the King of Sardinia, and he regretted that the hon. and learned Member for Dundalk (Mr. Bowyer) and the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) had not come forward to advocate the cause of the depressed people of Italy. Although, however, he was not surprised at the observations of the hon. Member for Manchester, he must express his extreme astonishment that the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire had selected such an occasion for the discussion to which he had given rise. It was remarks such as those which the right hon. Gentleman had employed that evening which had nullified the proposition of the Government for obtaining the assistance of foreign troops on a previous occasion when the Foreign Enlistment Bill was under discussion; and now the right hon. Gentleman repeated those remarks, and again spoke about a "tributary and a mercenary army." He had himself received letters from officers in Switzerland, in which they stated that, from no mercenary feelings, but from those of the purest sympathy, they would have enlisted wider our standard, but that nothing should induce them to do so after the manner in which they had been spoken of in the House of Commons. He regretted that the right hon. Gentleman should have used expressions which must tend to diminish that cordiality between this country and foreign nations, which was necessary to carry out the war to a successful termination.
 MR. LAYARD : I rise to ask my noble Friend at the head of the Government whether it is in his power to lay upon the table of the House any correspondence that has taken place between the allied Powers upon the subject of the treaty of the 2nd of December—any documents which have been communicated to the Russian Government upon the Four Points—and whether he has any objection to place upon the table protocols which, it is understood, have been signed, giving a construction to at least two of those Four Points?
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I do not think that
 1072 1073 primâ facie 1074 1075 1076 1077
 Mr. DISRAELI : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer has founded the course he recommends the House to pursue upon a principle which in practice he would find it very difficult to maintain. I understand from him, that he founds it not so much upon those great principles of policy which have been so eloquently advocated by the hon. Member for Hertfordshire, (Sir B. Lytton) and with great ability by other members of the House, as upon the principle that the recorded opinion of the House upon this subject is, in the mind of the right hon. Gentleman, a fact of such gravity and importance that it is impossible for him, as Chancellor of the Exchequer, to resist an intimation so precise and definite. Now, Sir, how can this principle be maintained in practice? Has it always been—I may almost say has it ever been—the principle adopted by Chancellors of the Exchequer, that they should, as a matter of course, assume a vote of this House, with respect to a particular tax, as an indication which cannot be mistaken, and as a sanction of a course which cannot be relinquished by the Government; and that the policy or expediency of repealing a tax, and the proper time for taking such a step—the question before us to-night—are to be omitted from all future discussion? Now, what is the fact? Why, in 1853, only two Sessions ago, the subject of what are called Taxes on Knowledge was before this House, and a Resolution for the abolition of the advertisement duty was carried by a large majority; but the Government did not on that occasion express their opinion that that vote was final on the question, nor did the Government think proper to act upon that vote. Have we not had the malt-tax repealed by a vote of the House of Commons before this, and were we then told by the Minister that, as a matter of course, it was the duty of the
 1159 1160 "If it be acknowledged that it is the privilege of the House of Commons to propose the repeal of one tax after another by a majority, and so dictate to the Chancellor of the Exchequer what shall be the financial policy of which he is to be the organ in this House, what, I want to know, is the use of the Chancellor of the Exchequer?" 1161
 MR. ADDERLEY said, it seemed to him that when a country was willing to furnish aid it did not much matter whether that aid was in the shape of men, of ships, or money. All he asked was that, as it had been argued that men were required, that the country should first be allowed to furnish its own men rather than to employ the men of another nation. The noble Lord who brought forward the Resolution, in the short speech which he had made, thought it was quite sufficient if he passed a panegyric on Sardinia to make the proposal acceptable to the Committee, and he was followed by the hon. Member for Malton (Mr. Evelyn Denison), who had asked whether Sardinia was not a fine country, with a noble king and a noble constitution? They all agreed in that, but still it did not appear to him a sufficient argument for the loan; and when the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone) added to that argument that her finances were in a good condition, he made the demand for the loan much less accountable than ever. He granted that if this country was exhausted, the noble Lord could not have gone to a better country than Sardinia to procure men, for he believed there was not a finer army in Europe than the Sardinian army, nor a nobler or more chivalrous Monarch, who had, in the bloody field of Novara, where three horses were shot under him, proved himself a most gallant soldier, as well as a constitutional King. But did that settle the point whether they were to give aid to Sardinia, for whether it were a loan or a subsidy it was an aid. Indeed, it bordered very nearly on the character of a subsidy if they looked to the length of time before the sinking fund proposed would cover the capital, and, however faithfully Sardinia might fulfil her engagements, few Members of that House then present would see the day on which the loan would be entirely repaid. There was also, let him say, something on the face of the Resolution calculated to raise a grave suspicion that by its terms the country was being asked to furnish Sardinia, with an annual loan
 1093 durante bello. l. l. l. prestige 1094
 MR. PACKE said, he did not despair of obtaining the vote of the hon. and learned Attorney General for the postponement of the Bill, because towards the close of his speech the hon. and learned Gentleman said, unless some great financial difficulty were in the way, he recommended the House to pass the second reading. He thought, after the speech of the right hon. Gentleman (Sir F. Baring) who had filled the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer, there had been reasons given against surrendering 200,000 l. 1142
 SIR C. WOOD stated that it was intended, as soon as the Baltic ports were opened, to establish as effective a blockade as possible, and that the blockade would be effective from first to last.
 MR. EVELYN DENISON said, he took a view of this transaction different from that of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Disraeli), and he could not but regret some of the expressions which had fallen from him. It did not seem to him (Mr. Denison) to be a transaction discreditable to one party and derogatory to the other, but, on the contrary, alike honourable and advantageous to both. The people of Sardinia and the Government of Sardinia deserved the warmest sympathy of that House. There was not only a gallant and spirited people, but also a faithful and upright king. It was owing to the fortunate combination of these causes that constitutional liberty had taken root and
 1081
 SIR BULWER LYTTON : I can, Sir, assure my hon. Friend the mover of the proposed amendment, that it is with great pain that on this question I am conscientiously compelled to differ from him, and, I fear, from some other gentlemen on this side of the House with whose opinions on most subjects I cordially concur. Before I sit down I shall examine the validity of the arguments on wide!) my hon. Friend has based his amendment; but I am glad to hear from him that he would not restrict the debate to the cramped and narrow ground on which his amendment would place it—that he would not reduce to a question of pounds, shillings, and pence a principle which I will endeavour to show to be one of the most important, and in point of time, one of the most pressing, which a House of Commons can entertain. I can, indeed, advance some claim to the original paternity of the measure my bon. Friend considers to be so mischievous. I believe I was the first person who ever introduced into this House a motion for the repeal of the taxes on knowledge, including the stamp duty on newspapers. Sir, when my hon. Friend
 1118 1119 The Times The Times "Expende Annibalem—quot libras in duce summo Invenies." The Times 1120 The Times 1121 1122 The Times, 1123 1124 1125 l. 1126 l. 1127 The Spectator. 1128 The Spectator The Spectator, 1129
 MR. MIALL said, as one of the very few Members of that House who were connected with the press, he would venture to entreat their indulgence for a few moments while he made one or two observations on the Bill then under discussion. Upon former occasions when the question had been brought forward he had contented himself by giving a silent vote, and he should not have troubled the House then but for the course taken by a considerable and influential portion of the newspaper
 1143 1144 1145 1146
 MR. HADFIELD said, he should support the Bill. He found that in seventeen cases the united value of the articles stolen amounted to 17 s. d., l.
 MR. SANDARS inquired of the First Lord of the Admiralty at what period it was intended to establish a blockade of the Russian ports in the Baltic and White Seas, and if the blockade was, from the first to the last, to be an effective one.
 MR. DRUMMOND said, he rose under the painful sensation of holding opinions very different to those he had heard expressed on both sides of the House. He was perfectly conscious of addressing a body of the most devout idolaters, and he was conscious, also, that they would not like to have their idol examined, or, to use the figure of the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir B. Lytton), in the course of his elo-
 1147 The Times, The Times Thucydides. 1148 The Times The Morning Chronicle, The Times 1149 The Times, 1150 The Times, The Times The Times The Times The Times 1151 The Times Times, The Times, The Times. The Times "If he means to intimate that notwithstanding injustice we are successful, he is certainly right. We are so, and as long as we discharge the duties which the empire and the world expect at our hands, we trust to continue so." The Times "The position of the allied army is precisely one of which a bold and original military genius might take advantage to retrieve the fortunes of the campaign." The Times "We are the old magpie on the right,  The other has set up in spite."
 MR. J. BALL said, he would admit that it was true that the finances of Sardinia had been to a considerable extent embarrassed of late years, but it was important to consider whether it arose from chronic causes, such as deficiency of resources, or merely from temporary causes. He thought that they were purely temporary causes, and that the embarrassment had been brought about by the enormous sacrifices made in 1848 and 1849, and by that most unfortunate campaign with Austria, and also by short crops. There was not the slightest reason to believe in the permanence of the state of things that had arisen from these causes, and in proof of that, he might refer to the great industrial exertions, and the development of the railway resources, which had occurred in Sardinia. In no country in Europe had there, since 1848, been so much capital, in proportion, laid out. Cultivation had also much increased, and the mining resources of the country had been developed in the highest degree. At the same time, he could not avoid stating his belief that some of the recent measures of the Government of Sardinia had been highly impolitic, but he quite agreed with the general course of legislation in Sardinia. As to the charge of culpable extravagance in Parliamentary corruption, he would say that though he had had great intercourse with people in that country, he had never heard an imputation of the kind, except from some of the more violent radicals. The hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) said the people of Sardinia had acted contrary to their own interests in entering into a treaty, but surely the representatives of the people of Sardinia, who voted for the treaty, ought to know what was best for the interests of that country. If the war were to continue, he did not think it right or just that it
 1105
 MR. BRIGHT : It strikes me, Sir, that the question which the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Disraeli) has introduced, and upon which the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) has touched, is hardly the one which is before the Committee. With regard to the defect in the Militia Bill, I certainly think the noble Lord was hardly fair in his remarks upon hon. Gentlemen opposite, because, if any attempt had been made to remedy that defect when the Bill was passing through this House, no one knows better than the noble Lord that the Bill would not have been passed at all. The question before the Committee is that of lending 1,000,000 l. l. 1082 1083
 MR. COBDEN said, he thought the hon. Member for Carlow (Mr. J. Ball) had somewhat misapprehended the remarks of his hon. Friend the Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright). His hon. Friend approved the efforts of Sardinia to advance liberal institutions as much as the hon. Member for Carlow, but he thought that they had acted unwisely in this instance. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Ball) said, the majority of the representatives of Sardinia were in favour of the step which had been taken; but the treaty, if he was rightly informed, was by no means unanimously agreed to by the Sardinian Parliament; and it sometimes happened that Parliamentary majorities were Wrong, and minorities right, though the hon. Gentleman would have the decision of a majority submitted to as a doom of fate. He (Mr. Cobden) had watched for some years with great interest the progress of Sardinia, and he yielded to no one in his wishes fur the prosperity and freedom of that country; for he regarded Sardinia as the only ray of hope in the dark political horizon of Italy, and he felt that if Sardinia and her Parliamentary and representative Government failed, a heavy blow would be dealt to the hopes of every other State in Italy. That being his feeling toward Sardinia, he could not be accused of speaking of her in a hostile spirit, when he said that he doubted whether she had consulted her own interests in entering into this war. Why should Sardinia, which was the only antagonist to the power of Austria in Italy, be forced into the war before Austria had fired a shot? Was it not like the monkey putting the cat's paw into the fire to draw out the chestnut? During the last two months enough had been heard of Austria entering into the contest. And why, then, was she not invited to enter into it first, rather than a smaller Power, which had always been regarded as a sort of equipoise against the influence of Austria in Italy, and a most salutary equipoise wherever it had been felt? While Austria preserved its neutrality—for virtually she was neutral—could anybody suppose that Sardinia, as against Austria, could gain power and influence? He was sorry, as he had just said, for the step which Sardinia had taken, but he would go so far with the hon. Gentleman below him as to express a
 1106 1107 l.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES said, he rose to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government whether, supposing peace should be concluded before the Sardinian expedition sailed to the Crimea, the obligation we had incurred with regard to the loan would be insisted upon?
 MR. HILDYARD said, he thought that the Bill would require a good deal of attention in Committee. There was, he considered, one great and palpable defect in it, namely, that the jurisdiction was confined to simple larceny, and did not extend to the case of a young vagabond picking a man's pocket of his handkerchief, because that was stealing from the person.
 MR. ROBERT PALMER said, he felt no objection to the second reading of the Bill, for, before Christmas, he had given notice of his intention to introduce a measure founded on the same principle, which would not, however, have gone so far as to include cases where the value stolen was 10 s., l. s. d.
 MR. WALPOLE : I do not wish, Sir, to stop the progress of the Resolution before the Committee. There is no difference of opinion with reference to the passing of that Resolution, though some difference has been expressed in regard to the policy which may be supposed to be contained in it. I think, however, that my right hon. Friend (Mr. Disraeli) may very well congratulate himself upon having brought this subject before the notice of the Committee, for if it had not been fully debated very great misconception might have taken place with respect to the question of loans and subsidies. As it is, the discussion this evening gives a clear intimation of the opinion of this House as to when loans ought and ought not to be made in these cases, and especially I refer to the opinions expressed by the right hon. Gentleman the Member fur the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone), which appear to me very much in conformity with those of my right hon. Friend, and in which opinions I need hardly say that I entirely concur. The observations of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) put this question in the best light. He said, with reference to the Resolution before the Committee, that two points were to be established; one being whether this was a safe and a judicious course, and the other whether it was a case in which necessity justified such a
 1102 bonâ fide 1103 1104
 MR. DEEDES  said, he had not had the good fortune to be present upon a former occasion, when the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer introduced to a Committee of the whole House the Resolutions upon which this Bill was based; but on reading in the usual channels of information the account of what then occurred, he (Mr. Deedes) had been forcibly struck by the very slight encouragement that appeared to have been given to the right hon. Baronet by those who followed him in the debate. It appeared to him that every hon. Member who spoke on that occasion had some stone to cast at the right hon. Gentleman, and that they generally concurred in pointing out to him that the measure he proposed to introduce was not likely to secure the approbation of the country at large. It was his sincere belief that if the right hon. Gentleman had adopted the advice then tendered to him, if he had abstained from proposing legislative interference on this subject, and if he had not followed the example of his predecessor in office, he would have escaped a very difficult task, and he would have had no difficulty, under existing circumstances, in justifying such a course both to the House and the country. He considered, indeed, that the observations of the right bon. Gentleman himself established a strong case against the necessity or advisability of bringing forward this question at the present moment. The right hon. Gentleman based the necessity of the measure upon certain Resolutions which were passed unanimously by that House during the last Session, at the instance of the right hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson). Now, he might observe in passing that he considered abstract Resolutions and abstract declarations of opinion, whether proceeding from bodies or from individuals, as extremely dangerous. Such Resolutions ought to be adopted with very great caution, for they were very apt to rise up in judgment against people
 1110 "If we had at this time a surplus revenue, and if the expenditure of the country did not greatly exceed its ordinary revenue, the newspaper stamp would have a fair claim to be considered on any plan for repeal or any readjustment of taxes, and those who object to it might claim that its repeal should have precedence in any financial scheme. This, however, is not the present financial state of the country. and, if the House should decide in favour of this measure, it would be my duty to call upon them to provide for the deficiency of the revenue Which might thereby be occasioned by some other mode of taxation."— [3 Hansard, "It is my duty to inform the House that the estimate of persons of authority as to the loss or revenue must not be taken to be less than 200,000 l. {3 Hansard, 1111 1112 1113 "There is another point which is not a matter of indifference to me—namely, the question of copyright for the protection of literary property in newspapers. I don't wonder, so far as we know anything of the plan of my right hon. Friend from his explanation to-night, that he has not included in his Bill any clauses upon this subject. I think, indeed, it is a matter with reference to which it would be very difficult to devise a plan. At the same time I am under the impression that the proprietors of newspapers, in many cases, entertain great anxiety that the provisions of the law with respect to the protection of literary property should undergo special consideration, and should, it practicable, receive some extension with a view to the protection of literary property in newspapers. Undoubtedly, so far as the article that is most strictly called 'news' is concerned—for instance, the communication of facts, which may generally be comprised within a very brief space, and the language, the outward shape and form of which can be varied almost at will—I do not know how you are to introduce any further provisions than the law at present contains; but I have understood from some persons, who ought to be well informed on the subject, that the great anxiety of those who think this question worth consideration in the press as it stands, is not so much directed to the protection of their 'news,' strictly so called, which, in point of fact, it would be very difficult to protect, as to the protection of what may more fairly be called their literary compositions: … I, for one, am very anxious that, either in the plan of my right hon. Friend, or in some other effective form, this question should be brought to a settlement."—[3  Hansard, "I do not venture to prejudge this question, but I would venture to express a hope that, in endeavouring to carry out the principle of the freedom of the press, my right hon. Friend will not be indisposed to take into his favourable consideration any reasonable proposition which may be
 1114 Hansard, 1115 l. "The Chancellor of the Exchequer has fairly told you that if you pass this measure he must of necessity propose some other taxation to compensate for the sum it is now proposed should be lost. Well, then, let us know what is the taxation which the right hon. Gentleman will propose in lieu?"—[3  Hansard, "We ought not to proceed to vote away a quarter of a million of public money until we have before us the whole state of the finances of the country, and are thereby able to take a full and comprehensive view of the subject. I will not now enter further into the details of the plan which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had explained so clearly and candidly to the House, but if he proposes, after bringing in his Bill, to pass it before his financial statement is made, I am afraid that he will find me prepared, even if I should find myself in a minority of one, to vote for the postponement of the measure."—[3  Hansard, Ibid. "It was impossible for that house to conceal from itself that the expenditure of the country exceeded by many millions any sum which could
 1116 l. Hansard, 1117 l.,
 MR. EWART inquired whether any measures were in contemplation for relieving certain towns in Scotland from the billeting of the militia, which was now complained of as being severely oppressive.
 MR. DUFFY said, he felt it his duty, as an Irish journalist, to explain why he was prepared to support the measure now before the House. Since he had held a
 1152 l., 1153
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL stated that orders had been given through the Ordnance that buildings should be hired for the accommodation of the militia in Scotland.
 MR. BOWYER said, he wished to address a few observations to the House upon this subject, which related to a country in which he had resided for many years, and which he had very lately visited. He did not wish to throw obstacles in the way of any measure which Her Majesty's Government believed to be essential to the prosecution of the war, and he had no intention of disparaging or undervaluing the assistance which might be derived from the Sardinian army. Indeed, he believed that a better disciplined and more gallant army did not exist in Europe, but he thought Her Majesty's Government should not be relieved from the blame which attached to them for resorting to means of this kind in prosecuting the war. When he asked the noble Lord at the head of the Government the other day whether he was prepared to afford the House any information as to the state of the Sardinian finances, he expected that the noble Lord would at least have been ready to have given the House such information as would show that good security could be given for the proposed loan. He had been surprised to hear the noble Lord say he believed it was a matter of notoriety that the credit of the Sardinian Government was good. Did the noble Lord rely upon the accounts of newspaper correspondents, and could he not have obtained an accurate knowledge of the state of the finances of Sardinia from our Minister in that country before he advised the advance of so considerable a loan as was now proposed to the Sardinian Government? It appeared to him (Mr. Bowyer) that this recklessness with regard to the means of repaying the advance was a strong indication that it was to be, not a loan, but a subsidy. Supposing, however, that it was intended to be a loan, the noble Lord must be aware the state of the Sardinian finances was such that the money would
 1084 l., 1085
 MR. BOWYER said, he wished to explain a point to which reference had been made by the right hon. Gentleman near him (Mr. Gladstone), who appeared to imagine that he had charged the Sardinian Government with corruption. No one could be more adverse than he was to attacks upon foreign Governments, but the statement he had made was made for the purpose of showing that the Sardinian Government could not administer its finances in a safe and proper manner, and he could produce facts to prove that what he had said was not a mere vague assertion. His statement with regard to the confiscation of the property of a hospital at Turin was, that the fee simple of the estates had been sold and the proceeds employed by the Government, and repayment of the capital not having been secured to the hospital,
 1108
 SIR GEORGE GREY in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, that its object was to extend the power of summary conviction possessed by magistrates to cases of petty larceny not exceeding 10 s.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The treaty was made with Sardinia upon the supposition that the Sardinian contingent would have to go to the seat of war, and carry on operations in conjunction with the British army during the year. The 1,000,000 l. agreed to. Resolved 1109
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I think that the right hon. Gentleman has misconceived and misrepresented what fell from the hon. Member for Perth (Mr. Kinnaird). I did not understand that hon. Gentleman as finding fault with the right hon. Gentleman for disapproving either of the policy of the Government or of the measure now produced. But that which he did disapprove of was the language which he thought the right hon. Gentleman had used, representing these Sardinian troops as mercenaries, and tending to cast upon them those imputations which he had cast on other foreign troops which the Government attempted to raise, but whose services the right hon. Gentleman, in his observations upon the measure before Christmas, had prevented us from obtaining. If the right hon. Gentleman did not apply his observations to that measure, then the comments of my hon. Friend would fall to the ground. But my hon. Friend spoke in the belief that the application had been made. Now, I must confess I was rather surprised to hear the right hon. Gentleman—wincing under the taunt—driven to express congratulations to himself that a measure which Parliament had deliberately sanctioned was, by means of imputations cast by him upon foreign troops, indirectly defeated. I should hardly have expected the right hon. Gentleman, in the position which he occupies, to congratulate himself that by the adoption of such means he had prevented a measure, which had been deliberately sanctioned by this House, being carried into effect. I can assure the right hon. Gentleman that that success which he boasts of as having obtained over that measure, has by no means tended to raise him or the party with which he is connected in the estimation of foreign nations. On the contrary, I am bound to say that the indignation which his observations have
 1100 1101
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, has stated with great accuracy that cases have occurred—and he stated several—in which this House having come to
 1162 1163 1164
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, as the right hon. Gentleman has announced that it is not his intention to oppose this Resolution, I apprehend very little is required from me in reply to the observations which he has made; but I cannot permit the right hon. Gentleman to attempt to confound a system of loans bearing interest, with a system of subsidies, upon which no interest would be paid, and which would be a pure and entire sacrifice upon the part of this country. The right hon. Gentleman may think less highly than I do, less highly than Her Majesty's Government, and less highly, I venture to say, than the country at large do, of the respectability of that country with which we have contracted these engagements annually, and of the means which the kingdom of Sardinia possesses of paying the small amount of annual contribution which will annually be required as the interest of the loan; but, supposing even that the loan was a sacrifice for a certain number of years—which it is not—any man who has cast his eye over the Estimates, and knows that the ordinary expense of 1,000 men on a peace establishment is 40,000 l., 1078 1079 1080
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : It is an invariable practice, and it is a wholesome custom, while important negotiations are pending, not to lay before Parliament fragmentary portions of the correspondence which may have taken place on the subject. I, therefore, shall not be able to comply with the request of my hon. Friend. I may, however, say that no communications were made directly from the British to the Russian Government; that whatever took place has been conveyed through the medium of the Austrian Government, which was then friendly to both. Since the declaration of war, it is obvious that no direct communication could take place between the Governments of Russia and Great Britain.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I rise, Sir, to propose to the Committee a Resolution for the purpose of enabling Her Majesty to fulfil the engagement which by treaty she has entered into with the King of Sardinia; and I will now state the grounds on which, in the opinion of Her Majesty's Government, the arrangement made is one which it is befitting for Parliament to sanction. It is well known that we are engaged in a war with a great military Power. It is true that we are acting in concert with another great military power—the Emperor of the French, who has at his disposal a large amount of military force; but the circumstances under which this country engaged
 1069 l. 1070 1071
 COLONEL HARCOURT  said, that, as one who had been educated in the junior branch of the college of Sandhurst, and had passed twenty-five years in the service, he would beg to claim the indulgence of the House whilst he addressed himself for a few minutes to that part of the subject which related to the promotion of the noncommissioned officer to the rank of a commissioned officer. Before doing that, however, he would observe with regard to the system of promotion by purchase—and he was sure he should be borne out by every military officer who heard him —that it was that system alone which afforded a chance of promotion in the
 1201 1202 1203 1204 1205 1206 The Gazette, 1207
 COLONEL LINDSAY  said, that perhaps the system of purchase, if it had never yet been established, would not now be adopted in the British army; but it was one thing to abolish an old established system, and it was another thing altogether to create a new one. The system of purchase, which was now called in question, had been part and parcel of the British army almost ever since that army had been established. He did not make that remark for the purpose of maintaining that the system was a good one, but he did it to show that it was inherent in the very existence of the British army as it was constituted at the present moment. He thought the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Major Reed) in introducing this question to the House had not altogether shown very clearly in what manner he would substitute a new system in its place.
 1208 1209 l., l. l., l. 1210 1211 1212 1213
 COLONEL NORTH  said, in reference to the case of Lieutenant George Brown, 95th Regiment, that thirty years ago, when he (Colonel North) joined the army, the father of that deserving young man was colour sergeant in the 11th Regiment. That most respectable man had given his sons the best education in his power, and he (Colonel North) was happy to say they all proved themselves most excellent and worthy men. He rose on the present occasion because he thought the remark of the hon. and gallant Member (Major Reed), in reference to this point, was unjust to Lord Hardinge and to the Horse Guards, when he set down the want of promotion of Lieutenant George Brown to the want of influence of that young man. Lieutenant George Brown, who had distinguished himself greatly at the battle of the Alma, was recommended for promotion by Lord Raglan, but, unfortunately, the recommendation arrived too late. Last week, however, Lieutenant George Brown's father brought him (Colonel North) a letter in which the fact was announced, and in the margin of that letter was a remark which did the greatest honour to Lord Raglan, who, it was untruly said, cared nothing for the sufferings of those under his command. In that letter Lord Raglan expressed the deepest regret that his recommendation had arrived too late to procure the promotion of this officer. Lord Hardinge had also expressed a similar regret; and he (Colonel North) felt confident that Lord Hardinge would take the earliest opportunity of carrying out that recommendation. The noble Lord (Viscount Goderich) who brought forward the question on a former night, spoke of the spirit of the army being depressed by the present system of promotion; but he (Colonel North) put it to the House whether there had ever been an army with a better spirit than that manifested by the British army? A great deal had been said of the French system of promotion; but the French had the conscription, in the first place, which brought young men of all classes into the ranks; and, in the second, the ranks of the French army were largely recruited from the students of the military schools, who might have failed to pass the severe examinations required for officers in the French service, or who, for some other cause, chose to enlist in the ranks. Very few officers in that army rose from the lowest ranks in point of fact.
 1214 l., l.,
 COLONEL LINDSAY  said, he spoke in
 1216 l l
 COLONEL KNOX  said, since the subject had been mooted by the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams) he should for once be obliged to agree with him in respect to the promotion of the staff after the battle of Inkerman. Nothing could be more extraordinary than such a promotion, when it was very well known that not a single officer on the staff was engaged in that action. Nay, he could point out, if it were not invidious, that some of the officers promoted had not even been in action or under fire. He was informed that the return did not include the whole of the promotions. He knew not where it had been compiled, whether at the Horse Guards or elsewhere, but it was certainly not complete. With the exception of Colonel Claremont, who was with the French army, the Prince of Saxe Weimar, and Captain Estcourt, the number of officers who actually fought at Inkerman, and who were promoted, only amounted to twenty-five. If he left out the general officers, he found the number of staff officers promoted amounted to fifty-four. A statement like that, he considered, required no comment. There was one other circumstance which he could not pass over on account of its importance. He hoped in the remarks he was about to make that it might be clearly understood he was actuated by no unfair feeling to any class of officers—he wished to give every one that which was fairly his due. But the circumstances that were connected with the warrant issued after the commission of
 1217 l l
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he thought that if by chance any stranger should be in the House, he would be struck with the singular course which their debates had that night taken. They opened with a grand proposition to reconstitute the kingdom of Poland, and, in spite of the power of Austria, of Prussia, and of Russia, to re-establish that kingdom on its ancient limits; but after a few moments the House subsided into a more practical vein, and an hon. and gallant Member got up to address them who described our army as totally disorganised, as unfit for any purpose whatever, and requiring to be re-established  de novo 1225 1226 1227
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he thought that the speech to which they had just listened showed that an hon. Member, as intelligent as the hon. Member for Kidderminster, yet unaccustomed to military details,
 1235 1236 l promenade militaire, l
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he, also must complain that the Votes for the Irish Post Office had been taken out of their turn, because these Votes would lead to discussion.
 LORD LOVAINE  said, he thought the hon. Member who had last spoken had made out no case for the destruction of a system which had produced an army that had beaten every army ever opposed to it in the field. He was not one of those who believed that such a body as the British army, composed of so many persons entertaining different ideas and opinions, could ever be compelled into anything like the unity of action which was induced by such systems as those adopted by mercantile or railway companies. He denied however, that there was any ground for the accusation of the hon. Member (Mr. Laing) that the officers of the British army were incapable of discharging their duty, he thought that accusation was most unwarranted. On the contrary, ender circumstances of peculiar difficulty and danger, they had performed their duties in a manner which had elicited the general approbation of their country. He (Lord Lovaine) denied that it was the fault of time regimental officers of the British army that their men in the Crimea had not been properly fed and hutted. He knew that many of those officers had laboured with their own hands to feed, to clothe, and to assist their men. Not a word of complaint had been breathed against the regimental officers with regard to the state of affairs in the Crimea, but the mismanagement was attributed to officers who had passed the position in which they could be promoted by seniority, and who had attained a rank in which they could only be promoted by merit, or, in other words, by favour. The hon. Gentleman had said the officers of the English army were not fit to discharge the duty of company officers or commanders of regiments, because they were merely amateurs; but this was a most gratuitous assumption. Why did not British officers remain long in the army? Because they could not hope to attain a rank which would reward them for their services; and if the House abolished the system of purchase they would preclude officers from attaining any considerable rank in the army until they were utterly worn out and incapable of service. It was, however, impossible to please some hon. Gentlemen. On the one side it was said that promotion by
 1223 1224
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he certainly could not coincide in the doctrine laid down by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Bath, that his proposal was demanded by the policy of the in the country, or that the reconstitution of Poland was just and necessary in itself. It appeared to him that if we could not take a town within six miles distance of the port at which we had disembarked, without our army being left to perish in the snow, it was useless to talk of entering upon an attempt which had foiled the genius of Napoleon. With regard to the Austrian portion of Poland, perhaps the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Phinn) was not aware that those provinces were highly fertile and productive; it was, therefore, not very likely that she would yield them up without a struggle; and he could not believe that it would be deemed very advisable for this country to rush into war on behalf of Poland with Russia, Austria, and Prussia, in arms against us. He was most anxious to say a word or two on the reconstitution of Poland, bearing upon the remarks of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. The partition of Poland had been called a scandalous violation of public law, and a great public crime; but was the hon. Gentleman prepared to justify his doctrine on that point, as of universal application, and to say that it was to be enforced in every country, in every case, and at every time. Why, let them look at the projects in which England herself had engaged during the last two centuries,
 1186
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he must complain of the manner in which the Civil Service Estimates had been hurried through on the previous evening. It had been his purpose to direct attention to a certain portion of those Estimates, but happening to have left his place for a short time, in order to hold a conversation with the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland, he found on his return that they had been disposed of. Now, he considered it a matter of reproach to the House that Estimates involving the outlay of a sum of nearly 4,000,000 l
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL , in seconding the Motion, said he could appeal with confidence to hon. Members, who might at first be disposed to oppose it, whether they could say, after calm consideration, that the time had not arrived when an alteration in the mode of granting promotion in the army ought to be made? The last subject they had been discussing, namely, relating to Poland—was an impracticable one, but this was a question of an entirely practical character—it involved no party feelings, and it might be dealt with by the Government, if it would only take it up,
 1197 l. 1198 l., 1199 l l 1200 l "That a Select Committee be appointed, to inquire into the present mode of conferring appointments in the Army (by purchase or otherwise); to report on the same, and recommend a more efficient system for securing promotion to merit and long service."
 MR. RICH  said, the hon. and gallant Gentleman who brought forward the Motion included in it a recommendation that the Committee should recommend a more efficient system of patronage. He was inclined to vote for the first part of the Motion, but he would suggest to the hon. and gallant Gentleman that it would he better to omit the latter. At the same time he must observe that he had listened in vain for any reason for the maintenance of the present system. If the system of purchase were applied to the Church, it would be called simony; if to the civil Government, it Would be termed corruption; and if to the bench, venality. Why, then, should they apply it to the army? An hon. Gentleman had spoken of the difficulty of discovering merit. if that were a good argument, why not extend it to all the services of the State? He denied that the present system gave them young generals. At the commencement of the war the average age of the lieutenant-colonels was forty-seven years and a half.
 MR. WILSON  said, he must defend the conduct of the Treasury bench, for the exigencies of the public service required that the estimates should be passed as rapidly as possible. After the 31st of March no authority would be possessed by the Treasury to defray the salaries of the civil servants of the Crown; and it became, therefore, of the last importance that not a moment should be lost in passing these
 1248
 MAJOR REED  said, all the opposition to the Motion had been hung on the late Motion of the noble Lord the Member for Huddersfield (Viscount Goderich), against promotion by purchase. That was not his (Major Reed's) Motion. He only said that the system of promotion by purchase was unfair to the soldier. Some hon. Gentle-
 1243
 MAJOR REED  said, he rose in accordance with the notice he had given, to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the present mode of conferring appointments in the army. He sincerely wished that this most important subject had been taken in hand by some hon. Member of greater experience and weight in the House than himself; but, since the duty had fallen upon him, he should not shrink from discharging it. The first point he wished to call the attention of the House to was the system of promotion in the army by purchase. This matter had been discussed very recently most ably on both sides of the House, and he believed that system was pernicious to the service and unjust to the private soldier, as well as to the poor but efficient officer, who was not in a position to be able to pay the large sums required to secure his promotion from step to step. The noble Lord the Member for Huddersfield (Viscount Goderich) brought forward this subject very recently in an admirable manner, and he believed that any hon. Gentleman who supposed that the noble Lord wished to introduce any levelling principle was very much mistaken. In vindicating the cause of the private soldier, the noble Lord desired, as he (Major Reed) also wished, to be the champion likewise of the poor and efficient officer. When the noble Lord the other night called attention to the way in which promotion by purchase was obtained, the hon. Under Secretary for War reminded the House that by an Act passed in the reign of George III. it was enacted that a certain regulation sum should be paid for the commission of an officer and for his future advancement step by step. He held in his hand a copy of the rules by which the British army was governed, and begged to call attention to the twentieth rule, which had reference to the purchase of commissions. In that rule regulations were laid down for the sale and purchase of commissions, and it was declared that any officer who violated those rules should be cashiered; and that any agent who assisted in the violation of them should be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Now he would appeal to any hon. Gentleman to say whether it was a fact that that regulation price
 1192 1193 1194 "In the French army, the system of promotion by merit, the certainty of advancement in rank which the consumption of life in battle afforded the survivors, at once kept alive that military ardour and insured the inestimable advantage of tried valour and skill in the officers of all grades on which the efficiency of an army in the field must at all times depend." "In one important point the British army differed totally from the French—the officers, being taken from the higher classes, were separated from the soldiers by an almost impassable line." 1195 1196
 MR. P. O'BRIEN  said, that, although he did not pretend to know much of military matters, still he knew that the expenses of an infantry or cavalry mess were such as to make it a great hardship, in the present state of things, for any sergeant from the ranks to be promoted to the position of a commissioned officer. This, he thought, that at least it formed a fitting subject for inquiry by a Select Committee, and the House ought not, therefore, to refuse the Motion. At the present time there was before the country the great and glaring fact of the want of an efficient system of promotion in the army, and the hon. and gallant Member who had proposed the appointment of a Committee to inquire into that subject was well deserving the support and sympathy of the House.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, it had been his lot on former occasions, when the question was brought forward by his noble Friend the late Lord Dudley Stuart, whose memory was linked to an unselfish devotion to the case, to express his opinions on the question of Poland. But he was anxious, before the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) spoke, to say two or three words on the subject, for he thought his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Phinn) was right in bringing the subject before the attention of the House. Taking the words of the Resolution, they enunciated facts on
 1184 1185
 MR. LOWE  said, he quite agreed with the noble Lord that this was eminently a practical question, and it was perfectly true that before any Gentleman presumed to address the House on it he ought to make himself acquainted with the documents to which the noble Lord had referred. He (Mr. Lowe) had done so, and therefore he took the liberty, with great humility as a civilian, to offer an opinion in the matter. After much careful examination, it appeared to him that the proposed Committee should be granted. In the first place, it appeared to him that the previous Commissions and Committees had all been held under circumstances very disadvantageous for a fair and impartial examination of the subject, because they were held under the overpowering influence of that illustrious man who then presided over the affairs of the army. It
 1228 1229 1230 1231 dilettante 1232 1233 l., l. l. l. l., l. l.; l., l. 1234
 MR. LAING  said, that, if this Motion had been made this time last year, when the country was under the delusion that it had, if not a large army, at all events an army admirably adapted to the purposes in
 1218 1219 l l l 1220 Gazette? 1221 1222
 MR. ALCOCK  said, that, as a general rule, when a death vacancy occurred in the army the senior of every rank was allowed to succeed to promotion without purchase. It might be supposed by those who had read the report of the Naval and Military Commission of 1840, that the same rule was followed in the navy. Such was not the case, however, of promotion, and it was absurd to talk of the system in the navy as being equivalent to that in case of death vacancies in the army. He denounced the Report of the Commission of 1840 as a mockery and delusion, and he declared that if the Government did not alter the system of promotion which obtained in the navy they would deserve to be opposed by every honest man in the country. In the Baltic fleet last year several death vacancies occurred. The first was Commander Anderson, of the  Cressy.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, that in bringing forward the Motion of which he had given notice, he had no desire to ask for any papers the production of which would be detrimental to the public service; nor did he wish to say one word against the present Government or against the noble Lord at the head of the Foreign Department, to whose ability and attention he bore ready testimony. The question of our trade with China, however, was one of the greatest importance not only to the merchants of Liverpool and Manchester, as well as the metropolis, but to the whole consuming population of this country; and it was particularly so at a time when the necessities of the State had induced the Government to arrest the operations of the Act for the reduction of the duty upon tea. He must ask the House to go back with him to the year 1851, when certain disturbances occurred in China, and our Consul at Shanghai took upon himself to interfere in the collection of the Customs' revenue. At that time the merchants, both in China and England, remonstrated with the noble Lord the then Foreign Minister, who immediately acted with his accustomed promptitude, and issued orders to the effect that the British Consul should no
 1244 ( Copy. "Foreign Office, June 18th, 1851. "Sir—I am directed by Viscount Palmerston to acquaint you in reply to your letter of this day's date, that Sir George Bonham was instructed by the Mail of last month to state to the Chinese High Commissioner, that as the Chinese authorities will not do their duty in preventing the Emperor of China from being defrauded of his just dues, the British Government can no longer order her Majesty's Consuls to do that for the Emperor of China, which the Emperor's own servants do not deem it necessary to do for Him; and that consequently all interference on the part of the British Consular Authorities for the protection of the Chinese Revenue, will for the future be withheld. Sir George Bonham was further instructed to make such arrangements as might appear to him to be sufficient for carrying out the intentions of Her Majesty's Government in this respect.—I am, Sir, your most obedient humble servant, (Signed) "H. U. ADDINGTON." 1245 "Foreign Office, 6th June, 1854. "To the Chairman of the Liverpool East India and China Association. "Sir,—I am directed by the Earl of Clarendon to acknowledge the receipt of your Letter of 25th ultimo, and I am to state to you in reply, for the information of the Liverpool East India and China Association, that as Sir George Bonham is expected to arrive in England in the course of the present month, His Lordship thinks it desirable to postpone any decision, in regard to the question of the securities taken for Duties at Shanghae during the time that the Chinese Custom-house was in abeyance, until he shall have had an opportunity of personally communicating with Sir George Bonham. "Her Majesty's Government will come to a decision on the subject as soon as Sir George Bonham returns to this country; and Lord Clarendon conceives that the arrangement which will be finally arrived at by the adoption of this course, even though it may occasion some slight delay in forwarding instructions to Sir John Bowring, will probably be more satisfactory than one made without the benefit of previous consultation with Sir George Bonham,—I have the honour to be, Sir, your obedient servant, "E. HAMMOND." "Foreign Office, July 4, 1854. "Sir,—With reference to the correspondence which has passed between you and this office respecting the securities taken by Her Majesty's
 1246 "E. HAMMOND." "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, that She will be graciously pleased to give directions that there be laid before this House, Copies of all Instructions having reference to Trade, sent out by Her Majesty's Government to Her Majesty's Superintendent of Trade in China, subsequent to the 1st day of February 1854; also, of the Correspondence subsequent to that date, between Der Majesty's Government and Her Majesty's Superintendent of Trade, having reference to British Trade in China, up to the present time."
 MR. PHINN  said, that after the appeal which the noble Lord had made, he felt that he had no alternative but to withdraw the Motion. But he must protest against the suggestion that he had a great wish to make his speech. He had no desire to obtrude himself on the House, but he con-
 1191
 MR. PHINN  said, he owed an apology to the House for venturing, in a time of critical emergency, to submit to their notice a Motion of such universal interest, and involving such important consequences, as the one which he was about to propose. He should, however, make as calm, temperate, and dispassionate a statement as possible, and should refrain from any language which might prevent the Government carrying out its designs in regard to peace, or might awaken in any degree the sensibilities of foreign nations. He had felt considerable difficulty in submitting this question to the House, because in the first instance a very strong opinion appeared to prevail that the idea of attempting to restore Poland to its former rank and independence was a quixotic notion, that it was speculative and theoretical, and that it was a matter fitter for Utopia rather than for the calm consideration of reflective men, and also because there had always been a certain amount of ridicule thrown upon those who had formed strong and decided opinions on the subject. He felt, however, supported in his attempt from recent occurrences and in answer to such objections, he would appeal to the numerous petitions which had been presented upon the subject to that House, to the declarations of able and distinguished Members, among others to those of the hon. Baronet of an illustrious name, who now held an office in Her Majesty's Government, to the notice which it had attracted in foreign countries as well as in our own, and to the declaration made by the First Minister of the Crown the other night, that he considered the position which was occupied by Russia in Poland as a standing menace to Germany. Surely, if Warsaw were a standing menace to Germany, as Sebastopol was to Constantinople, the question was entitled to be regarded as one of great practical consequence. Another objection to the Motion was, that it was a matter which ought to be left entirely in the hands of the Government, and that it was too delicate for discussion in that House. He altogether repudiated such a false delicacy; he believed that no inconvenience could arise from the mature deliberations of the House upon such a subject, and he would remind it that the public mind was in no temper to accept the arbitrary judgment of statesmen as a solution of every important question relating to foreign policy. The time
 1175 Sic volo, sic jubeo, stet pro ratione voluntas. 1176 "'I know, M. I'Ambassadeur,' says the Empress, 'that I have brought a great stain on my reign by all that has come of this affair with Poland; but I assure you that I should be pardoned were the extent of my repugnance to it known, and how much circumstances have united to force my principles as well as my resolutions against all extreme views of the unjust ambition of Russia and Prussia. Finding no other means of opposing myself alone to the plan of these two Powers, I believed that, in exercising on my part exorbitant demands and pretensions, they would refuse me and break off the negotiation; but my surprise and grief were extreme on receiving, in reply to these demands, the entire consent of the King of Prussia and the Czar. Never have I been so distressed; and I must do justice to M. de Kaunitz for his great trouble at this time. He had always strongly opposed this cruel arrangement.'" "After the efforts which Her Imperial Majesty has made to restrain her neighbours, after having sacrificed enormous sums to restrain an ambitious rival, Her Majesty would have exposed herself by a more prolonged inaction to the total ruin of her finances, to contempt, and the most irreparable disaster. I had no alternative, then, but to take the part my Court determined on, although with real regret and extreme aversion, constrained by the force of circumstances, and free from all personal desire, it contented itself with insuring itself possessions corresponding with those which Prussia has gained. The equilibrium of Europe required that indemnity." 1177 "Of all the questions to be discussed at this Congress, the King would undoubtedly consider the affair of Poland as incomparably the most important to the interests of Europe, if there be any chance that this nation so worthy of regard, by its antiquity, its valour, its misfortunes, and the services it has formerly rendered to Europe, might be restored to complete independence. The partition, which destroyed its existence as a nation, was the prelude to—in some sense the cause of—the subsequent commotions to which Europe was exposed." "The conduct of the Austrian Emperor can have left no doubt in the mind of the allied Powers, that the re-establishment of Poland as an independent State, with a national administration of its own, would have fully accomplished the wishes of His Imperial Majesty; and that he would even have been willing to make the greatest sacrifice to promote the restoration of that ancient and beneficial arrangement. This fact must be sufficient to show that the Emperor is very far from entertaining any jealousy or anxiety as to the interference of the Polish nation with this empire. Austria has never considered free and independent Poland as an inimical or rival Power; and the principles on which his illustrious predecessors acted, and which guided His Imperial Majesty himself until the partition in 1773 and 1797, were abandoned only under the pressure of circumstances which the Sovereigns of Austria had it not in their power to control." 1178 "The King is willing to suppose that the three Courts are convinced of the justice of their respective pretensions, although His Majesty is not informed of the reasons of their conduct." "I have long since seen with extreme pain the evils which surround your Majesty and which have paralysed Poland. I fear that those ills have arrived at the point at which they cannot be redressed except by the hand of the Almighty, and I see no other intervention which can remedy them. I would willingly exercise mine if I could see the moment at which it might be useful." "The forced annexation of nearly the entire of so important and populous a territory as the Duchy of Warsaw, containing about 4,000,000 of people, upon a principle of conquest, to the empire of Russia, so largely increased of late by her conquest of Finland, by her acquisitions in Moldavia, and by her recent extension on the side of Persia, her advance from the Niemen into the very heart of Germany, her possession of all the fortresses of the duchy, and thereby totally exposing to her attack the capitals of Austria and Prussia, with-
 1179 "If moral duty requires that the situation of the Poles should be ameliorated by so decisive a change as the revival of their monarchy, let it be undertaken on the broad and liberal principle of rendering them again really independent as a nation, instead of making two-thirds of them a more formidable military instrument in the hands of a single Power. Such a measure of liberality would be applauded by all Europe and would not be opposed; but, on the contrary, would be cheerfully acquiesced in both by Austria and Prussia. It would be a measure, it is true, of sacrifice, in the ordinary calculation of States, on the part of Russia; but if His Imperial Majesty is not prepared for such sacrifices to moral duty on the part of his own empire, he has no moral right to make such experiments at the expense of his allies and neighbours." 1180 1181 1182 "The modern history of Russia has for its objects nearly exclusively the destruction of Poland. It has achieved that destruction to bring itself into contact with the western nations of Europe, and to gain a larger field for the development of its forces, its talents, its ambition, its passions, and its interests." "A daring pilot in extremity. Pleased with the danger when the waves run high, He courts the storm." 1183
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, that the average salaries of the class of clerks especially referred to in the Report of Sir Charles Trevelyan did not amount to more than 150 l l l l
 MR. MICHELL  said, he thought the hon. Member (Mr. Macartney) perfectly warranted in complaining. He had himself intended calling attention to the way in which the subordinate clerks in the Custom House were treated, but such was the hurried manner in which these four votes were passed, that no one could inform him what was doing in the House at the time.
 MR. MONSELL  said, there had been a report received from the District Commander of the Royal Engineers, saying that the Arsenal was unfit for barracks, but certain representations had been made of an opposite character, and further inquiries would be made. As to the second question, whether it was intended to have an artillery force, he had to inform the hon. Member that it was decided to have some militia artillerymen stationed at Yarmouth, and early arrangements would he made for that purpose. In answer to the third question, he had to state that orders had been given for the construction of a battery at the mouth of the harbour, and three existing batteries had been ordered to be made serviceable. He would take that opportunity of answering a question put to him the other day by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) in reference to entrenching tools. The hon. and learned Gentleman at that time asked him whether there had not been a Commission issued after the camp at Chobham to inquire into the quality of
 1173
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  seconded the Motion. "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to command that, in the event of negotiations being commenced with a view to peace, Her Majesty's Envoys should use their best exertions for the reconstitution of the Kingdom of Poland within its ancient limits, as a measure just and necessary in itself, in accordance with the ancient policy of this country, and as absolutely essential to the due maintenance of the balance of power in Europe."
 Mr. W. WILLIAMS  said, he had no recollection of having made such a speech. The hon. and gallant Gentleman (Colonel Lindsay) had given the House a list of
 1215
 SIR EDMUND LACON  said, he begged to inquire whether any report had been received from the commanding officer of Engineers at Harwich, or from any officer sent down for the purpose, relative to the Arsenal at Yarmouth; if so, whether that report recommends that building to be converted into barracks; and if it be intended to have an artillery force stationed at Yarmouth; further, if it is the intention of the Board of Ordnance to errect new batteries at the entrance to the harbour, or upon any commanding situation in the immediate neighbourhood?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he was quite ready to admit that the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Wilson) had a difficulty to encounter in this matter. Still he would ask what was the value of the privilege which had been conceded by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone) when Chancellor of the Exchequer, and which enabled the House of Commons to criticise Estimates involving nearly 4,000,000 l 1249
 VISCOUNT CHELSEA  said, he wished to put the following question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government—namely, whether, a distinct pledge having been given on the 14th day of May, 1854, by the Duke of Newcastle, then Minister at War, and an understanding arrived at that militiamen enrolled under the provisions of the Act of 1852 should not be called upon against their consent to serve for more than fifty-six days in the year during the period for which they enlisted, the noble Lord is prepared to give an assurance that it is not the intention of the Government to take advantage of the power which, in the opinion of the law officers of the Crown, is conferred by the 15 & 16  Vict.,
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Undoubtedly the law is as it was explained by the law officers of the Crown, and the Government have a full right to require from the militia complete obedience to that law; but it is quite true, as has been stated, that there was a sort of expectation held out by the noble Duke, the late Minister at the head of the War Department, that that obligation would not be strictly enforced. The noble Lord now at the head of the War Department is about to issue a circular to the whole of the militia regiments, the object of which will be to give to the men so enrolled previous to the passing of the Act of last year the option of being reattested, and of serving fur the full time for which they are liable, or of selecting to complete only their fifty-six days in the year.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I cannot, Sir, at all concur in the observations which have been made by the noble Lord who has just sat down, and who had compared the progress of the British arms in different parts of the world with that transaction which had obtained the reprobation of all Europe—the different partitions of the independent kingdom of Poland. The con-
 1187 1188 1189 1190
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he was in the House at the time the Votes were taken, and it was by no means empty. Notice had been given, and any Member who wished to make observations upon the Votes would have done better to remain in his place. He advised the hon. Member for Bodmin (Mr. Michell), if, on any future occasion, he could not understand or make out by his own ears what was going on, to ask the chairman what was the question.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the House might have collected from the statement of the hon. Gentleman that this was a question of a very complicated nature, involving a great variety of communications and transactions, in which the Chinese
 1247
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, if every one of the seven sleepers, whose history we have read could have happened to wake up, after their many years' slumber, and, being ignorant of what is passing in Europe, had come suddenly into this House to be present at this debate, judging from the speeches we have heard, they would have gone away with the melancholy conviction that this country had sustained some great military disaster, and that we were on the point of being conquered by some great military power, and that this House, with Roman or even with Spartan fortitude, were deliberating in the midst of impending disasters, upon the best means to be adopted for saving the
 1237 1238 1239 1240 1241 1242
 MR. KEATING  was happy to think that he was relieved from the necessity of advocating the principle on which both Bills rested, as it was admitted on all hands the present law upon bills of exchange in England was a scandal to the administration of justice. He thought, however, that the introduction of the Scottish law was unnecessary, as tending only to encumber and clog the wheels of justice. So far from attaining the object desired in a more rapid and less expensive way, he thought it would only go to accomplish in a more expensive way an object which might be effected by the slightest possible alteration
 1268
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he agreed with the hon. Member for Birmingham that this was a question more for the consideration of the commercial community than for lawyers, though perhaps the experience of hon. and learned Gentlemen might enable them to throw some light upon it. It was notorious that actions on bills of exchange gave rise to defences of so fictitious and fraudulent a character as to be a disgrace to courts of justice; as regarded the creditor they were unjust, and as regarded the debtor, degrading and demoralising. The question then was whether or not the existing state of the law ought to be amended? He thought there could be no doubt that they ought to do so, unless very great embarrassment and injury to commerce would result from it. Was it not palpable that it was an advantage to a man holding a bill of exchange to be able to recover by a cheap, summary, and expeditious remedy? Why did the creditor exact a bill of exchange but for the purpose of ensuring payment? He admitted that the question was one of commercial policy, and it had been said by an hon. Gentleman of great authority in commercial matters, that the effect of the proposed change would be to prevent bills
 1269 1270
 MR. COWPER  opposed the second reading of the Bill. He did not think that it was very desirable to legislate on questions of this kind in detail. He thought, too, that the changes contemplated by the Bill were unnecessary, and were open to many objections, and did not even carry out systematically the intentions of the proposer himself. He thought that the regulations which it contained with respect to the regulations for the consolidation of benefices were not framed with sufficient clearness and accuracy to render them easily workable, and the limited application of the Bill to benefices under a certain amount would lead to uncertainty as to the state of the law. The second clause, which referred to the non-residence of masters of colleges and schools, he had no objection to; and with regard to the latter clause of the Bill, he must say that he did not think it desirable to confiscate the revenues of parishes which had no church but had a clergyman, in order to provide a sacred edifice. It would evidently occupy some period before a church could be erected from the accumulation of the income which now went to the incumbent, and he did not think it would be desirable to deprive the parishioners of the advantage of the ministrations of a clergyman for this length of time, particularly as a room might be licensed for the celebration of divine worship, if there was no church. If it were thought necessary to make such a provision, he thought some better means of getting funds might be provided than that of confiscating the income of the clergyman. Looking at the Bill as a whole, he did not think there was any pressing necessity for it, and he hoped
 1277
 MR. BANKS  was inclined to agree with the last speaker in respect to the constitutional part of the question. Be thought, too, that the present was not precisely the time when such a proposition was likely to meet with most favour, for, with respect to many places, hon. Members did not know whether they were vacant or not, and one of the means of obtaining that knowledge was by the Motion for new writs. He certainly wished that every Member, on the occasion of his receiving a new appoint-
 1280
 MR. BENTINCK  thought the experience of the last two months, during which there had been such a shifting of the Members of Government from one department to another as was neither conducive to the character of public men, nor to that of the Government, afforded sufficient argument against the Bill.
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  should vote for the Bill, because he thought it would prove advantageous to the Crown in respect to the choice of its Ministers, and in the case of large counties, such as Yorkshire, he believed that re-elections, on account of the change of one office for another, would be deemed extremely inconvenient.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, this Bill had not yet been printed; but it simply empowered the Go-
 1282
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, the third clause appeared to be to the same effect as a Bill brought in by the hon. Member for Sussex sonic years ago, and which, after much discussion, the House rejected. It seemed to him as though the hon. Member, finding one evil existing in a parish, proposed to remedy it by the creation of another. Because there happened to be no parish church in a parish—a circumstance which all would deplore—the hon. Gentleman proposed, in fact, that, until the bishop was satisfied that the income of the benefice had accumulated sufficiently to erect a church, there should be no clergyman. That, in his (Mr. Bouverie's) opinion, was not by any means the proper way to remedy the evil. Neither was he willing to give to the bishop the power contained in the third clause, in reference to the presentation of clergymen to benefices by the patrons. As to the clause respecting the union of benefices, it was mere nibbling with the great and important question of pluralities—a question which ought to be dealt with as a whole, and not in one particular minor point, as proposed by the Bill. He trusted the House would reject the Motion for reading the Bill a second time,
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  pointed out to the opponents of the Bill that the existing law did not oblige a Minister, who continued to hold office, though in a new Administration, to go back to his constituents, provided he retained the same office. It struck him that the present state of things, which the Bill proposed to alter, created great inconvenience, for, as almost every Member of Government since the passing of the Reform Bill was obliged to represent a popular constituency, it practically too much embarrassed the prerogative of the Crown in the choice of its servants and proved an impediment to putting the right men in the right places.
 MR. FREWEN  replied. He had brought forward the measure entirely for the public good, and he was not responsible for the Bill of last year. There was a strong feeling in the country that these things should be reformed, and therefore he would take the sense of the House on the subject.
 Mr. FREWEN  said, that in moving the second reading of this Bill, he wished to explain how the law now stood with regard to the holding of pluralities by clergymen of the Established Church. An Act was passed in 1850 for putting an end to the practice of holding benefices in plurality; but just before it passed a clause was inserted, the effect of which was to extend certain powers which were given under a former Act, and to enable any number of benefices to be consolidated and held as one, though they might not be held in plurality. This state of the law involved the inconsistency that, whilst the clergyman could not be presented to two livings, the two might be united and held in consolidation as one. How the system operated was rendered sufficiently apparent by the returns which had been laid upon the table of the House. The cases enumerated in the first of these returns were two livings in Cambridgeshire, which had been consolidated into one, and in each of which there was ample provision for the payment of a clergyman. The population of the two parishes together amounted to 939 souls, and their joint income was 715 l. 1275 l. l. l. 1276
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, that although not present during the whole of the discussion, he had felt it his duty to vote in support of the second reading of the bill, not because he approved of the measure itself, or could say that he entirely acquiesced even with its principle, but because he understood it had been suggested that this and the bill standing next on the paper should be referred to a Select Committee. Now, he really did feel that the law stood so much in need of amendment, that he was ready to concur in any means which would lead to a full consideration of the subject; and he should, therefore, cheerfully support the second reading of the other bill as he had supported the second of this, on the understanding that they should both be referred to a Select Committee.
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  thought it was not desirable that a person holding an office of profit under the Government
 1281
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, he had listened attentively to the whole of this discussion, and he confessed that he was more perplexed and embarrassed than ever he had been in his life by the variety of opinions he had heard on the subject. There were two question involved in the Bill, which, in the discussion of its principles, ought to be kept apart. The first question was whether it was advisable that the holders of negotiable securities should have given to them more expeditious remedies than other creditors of realising the amount of those securities; and in the second place it was necessary to consider whether the machinery provided by the Bill was exactly the kind that was required for that purpose. He did not mean to undervalue the weight of the petitions that had been presented in favour of this Bill, but he should be glad to ascertain the character of the persons who had presented these petitions; he should like to know if they were persons who were more in the
 1266 1267
 MR. GLYN  said, he did not entirely approve of the Bill before the House; but so many were the practical evils attending the present system of bill circulation in this country, that some remedy was absolutely necessary. He agreed, the proper course would be to send both the Bills to a Select Committee, in order that they might endeavour to get rid of the existing anomaly in our commercial code on this subject, and assimilate it to the law of Scotland and of other countries. At present the mode in which acceptances were given and taken was a positive evil. A single house in London on the 4th of March last had no less than 700 bills noted for dishonour; and on the same day it was calculated that no less than 5,000
 1265 bonâ fide
 MR. HADFIELD  opposed the Bill. If they began to fritter away the constitutional principle little by little, they would by and by get rid of it altogether. He moved, as an Amendment, that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 MR. MUNTZ  said, this bill was superior to the other in every respect, but of course, like that, it would be referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. MUNTZ  found it necessary to say that his observations had been misunderstood. What he had said was, that all the men of commercial standing, whom he had consulted, were perfectly satisfied with the existing state of the law, and had no desire to see it altered.
 MR. MUNTZ  said, that he should have great pleasure in seconding the Motion of the hon. Member for Dublin. This was the same Bill that had been postponed last year for very obvious reasons; and no alteration had been made in the measure since that time; he had taken great pains in inquiring from all persons connected with commercial operations what their opinions were as to its character and effect; and the universal reply he had received was, that there was not the slightest necessity for the measure, the law as it stood at present being amply sufficient for all purposes of justice, and that a great deal more evil would be done to society by this measure than by letting the law remain as it is. Could anybody doubt that if the present measure passed, great injustice would be done to the endorser of bills? He would admit that the acceptor and drawer of a bill were bound to take care that it was duly provided for, but the position of an endorser was different. A man engaged in large transactions might endorse bills to the extent of 50,000 l. bonâ fide 1252
 MR. SANDARS  observed that, as a very ample discussion had taken place upon this subject, be hoped his hon. friend the Member for Dublin (Mr. Vance) would, in deference to what appeared to be the
 1272
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, the Bill which came down from the House of Lords had his entire approbation. He believed that the application of the Scotch law to England would be productive of the greatest possible good, and with respect to those hon. Gentlemen who thought that the nationality of England would be thereby affected, he begged to remind them that the law of Scotland was the law of the whole of the civilised commercial world. The bill of exchange was the currency of merchants, and instead of seeing any ground for maintaining the doctrine of the other side, his wonder was that England should have grown up to such a position of commercial wealth whilst the law of bills of exchange remained in its present barbarous state. These bills of exchange circulated as money from hand to hand, they were assignable and discounted, and then, at a certain point, that which had before circulated as money represented it no longer. What was contended by the other side was, that when a small trader promised to pay a bill of exchange he was not bound to keep his promise, because other people, through whose hands the bill passed, did not keep theirs. When it came to this point that a man was not able to meet his debt without having recourse to a fictitious defence, it was far better that he should go into the  Gazette
 MR. CHEETHAM  said, the bill was framed upon the objectionable principle of giving an undue preference to one creditor over another; and so long as that principle was retained, no Select long would be able to make the measure acceptable.
 MR. GURNEY  said he did not think a sufficient case had been made out for the proposed change of the law. So far as his own experience went he had never known an instance in which the loss upon bills of exchange had been increased in consequence of the delay entailed by the present state of the law. There were certain cases in which the remedy was worse than the disease, and this was one. The disease was the inconvenience of a few creditors; the remedy would be the ruin of a multitude of debtors. He differed from the hon. Gentleman in thinking that every alteration in the law that enabled creditors to obtain speedier remedy against the debtor, was, for that reason, an improvement upon the law. The debtor ought to have a fair and reasonable time given him to recover from temporary and accidental embarrassment; and, if he should fail, then the law ought to provide that his property should be equally divided among all his creditors. But it seemed to him that the present bill was utterly deficient in both these respects. The bill gave to the creditor who held an overdue bill of exchange an enormous priority of advantage as against the creditors on open accounts—a priority that was not based either in justice or expediency. But it was assumed in this bill that the creditor upon a bill of exchange, being a formal document, ought to have priority, and that the debtor admitted on the face of the bill that he was indebted to a certain amount, and
 1257 1258 bonâ fide 1259
 MR. MURROUGH  observed that there existed at the present moment a number of inconvertible bills of exchange which were recoverable by the agency of the Court of Chancery. But there was another class of bills of exchange which were drawn by the small traders, and which were never intended to pass as money till the goods they represented were sold. Now if these bills remained in the hand of the original holders this bill might not produce much evil; but as it was well known that numbers of these bills got into the hands of warehousemen in London, and on their failure passed into the hands of others who pressed on the small traders, he thought the House should be cautious before they agreed to the measure. He suspected that the bill was promoted for the benefit of persons behind the scenes.
 MR. VANCE  in rising to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months, said, that the measure affected not only merchants and persons connected with commerce, but professional men, country gentlemen, and all who in any way might become parties to a bill of exchange. He believed he should be able to show that the present measure would interfere with the general circulation of bills of exchange, which were the lifeblood of commerce; and also that it was calculated to prevent the fair division of the estates of insolvent debtors and interfere with the jurisdiction of the Irish courts; and that while on the one hand the provisions of the Bill might be used by the fraudulent debtor for the most dishonest purposes, they might on the other be resorted to as a measure of oppression against the willing and honest man. The Bill enacted that a registration office should be established for dishonoured bills of exchange,
 1250 Bills of Exchange, 1251
 MR. VANCE,  in explanation, said that what he had stated was, that in the course of a long experience he had never had to encounter a frivolous defence to a bill of exchange, and that that was the experience of several other Members of the House. He should certainly take the sense of the House upon the question.
 MR. HENLEY  concurred with the hon. Member for Hertford (Mr. Cowper) as to the inconvenience of frequent legislation upon matters of this kind, particularly as in the present instance the hon. Mover of the Bill himself seemed, judging by the first clause, to undergo a constant change of mind upon the question of value. The third clause, he admitted, was an important one, because nobody could desire, where there was a benefice with a certain amount of revenue and no church, that such a state of things should continue. But what would the proposal of the hon. Member do, so far as providing a remedy was concerned? Why, it would have no effect at all during the lives of the existing incumbents, and would only come into operation upon the voidance of the cures. Consequently, whilst the lives of fifty or sixty incumbents of benefices so situated endured there would be no remedy whatever for the evil. Churches were generally built by means of the contributions of persons who took an interest in such matters, with the assistance of certain societies; but if this Bill were to become law, and it were known that upon the death of incumbent A, B, C, who was rather feeble, and not likely to live more than two or three years, a fund would at once begin to accumulate, he apprehended that great difficulty would be experienced in getting people to subscribe for the erection of a church in that locality. For, naturally enough, they would say, "In a few years you will have a fund sufficient for building a church, and we can find plenty of other places where our money will be more useful." Some analogy might be drawn between the case and the appointment of new bishops. The new bishop directed his energy to promote the interests of his
 1279
 MR. HENLEY  had heard no good reason in favour of the Bill. No doubt some inconvenience might arise to a Member of a Government in consequence of finding a difficulty in being re-elected; but that was a reason why the present constitutional rights of the electors should be retained.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, that the bill provided for the registration of all bills of exchange and promissory notes. The House was aware that judgments and bills of sale were now registered; but they might not be aware that, through the
 1271 l.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he must differ from the conclusions of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and, as to the arguments used by him, he did not think that any reform had ever been carried without having a similar line of argument applied to it. He thought the House ought not lightly to reject a measure which had been found to work so well in Scotland—a country not likely to be led away by any crude or romantic notions on the subject of commerce; and when it was found that in a country like Scotland, after an experience of many years, a system similar to the one now proposed had proved most valuable and useful, he could not see why it should not be introduced into this country. A similar system existed in all the commercial countries of Europe, and it appeared to him that it ought to be the constant effort of the Legislature, first to assimilate the commercial law of the whole kingdom, and then to harmonise it with that of the whole commercial world. He did not think that the House ought, unless some weightier reason were given than had yet been advanced, to reject the present Bill. In his opinion, it would not be productive of the hardships which had been pointed out by the hon. Member for Lynn, for when men knew the provisions of the law they would comply with them and discharge their obligations, or else they would not enter so lightly into them. With regard to frivolous and fictitious defences, he had been startled to hear the hon. Member for Dublin (Mr. Vance) say that he had never heard of any. Why, it was almost always the case in trials concerning bills of exchange, and Lord Campbell in another place had stated that he had known many cases in which the money of the creditor had been wasted away in litigation by a fraudulent debtor. It was said, that the proposed change would give a preference to the holders of bills of exchange over other creditors; but, if it were so, a debt on a bill of exchange was different to an ordinary debt; a bill of exchange was an acknowledgment of a debt. A person who accepted a bill of exchange ought to be prepared at the proper time to discharge the obligation into which he had entered, and no law regarding such transactions
 1260 bonâ fide "Whenever a strong presumption of right appears on the part of the plaintiff, the burden of disputing his claim should be thrown on the defendant. This I would extend to such cases as bills of exchange, bonds, mortgages, and other such securities. In those cases I think the plaintiff should be allowed to have his judgment upon due notice given, unless good cause be in the first instance shown to the contrary, and security given to prosecute a suit for setting the instrument aside."—[2  Hansard, Geo. Geo. "And whereas it hath been found by experience, that so much of the said Act made in the twelfth year of the reign of His present Majesty as relates to bills and promissory notes, hath been of great advantage to the trade and commerce of that part of Great Britain called Scotland; be it therefore enacted, that so much and such part of the said Act shall be, and the same is hereby made, perpetual." 1261 "There could be no doubt that it was of immense importance that the commercial law of the three portions of the United Kingdom should be assimilated, and such an assimilation would introduce reforms which might lead to the most important commercial advantages. He was, perhaps, as competent to speak on this point as any of their Lordships, as he had the honour of presiding in Her Majesty's Court of Queen's Bench, where a great many causes were tried; and he assured the House that in very many the money of the creditor was wasted by the fraudulent debtor in litigation. Frequently, the acceptor of a bill of exchange, who, having had value received, and having failed to pay at the end of the period had an action brought against him, set up a number of fraudulent and unfounded defences, and when the day of trial came no real justification was attempted. At one single sitting of the Court, within the last four weeks, there were no less than sixteen actions on bills of exchange, in which the defendants did not attempt to set up the shadow of a shade of defence. He saw no reason, therefore, why they should not do as they did in Scotland, and in every other commercial country, and, indeed, in the time of Edward I., in this country."—[3  Hansard,
 MR. BAINES  said, he must be allowed to advert to a petition presented by him little more than a month ago in favour of this Bill from the Leeds Chamber of Commerce, which was composed of persons who thoroughly understood the trade of this country, whether relating to large or to small operations. This petition had been entirely misdescribed by the hon. Member (Mr. Spooner.) The petitioners stated that they "earnestly desired the assimilation of the commercial laws of the three portions of the united kingdom, and they consider that, by passing Lord Brougham's Bill, Parliament would take an important step towards such assimilation. It would greatly simplify and economize the administration of the law in England; it is founded upon just and sound principles; it is in accordance with the experience of other commercial countries; it meets the views of the mercantile communities in general; and it has had the sanction of the highest legal authorities, and of both Houses of Parliament." With regard to the Bill of the hon. Member for Reading (Mr. Keating), it was in itself a valuable measure, although he preferred the one now under discussion; but he thought the object in view would be best obtained by referring both of these Bills to a Select Committee, who would perhaps be able to give them a better Bill than either of those now before the House.
 MR. M'MAHON  called attention to a clause in the bill (the 12th) which would, in his opinion, involve an infringement of international law. The bill proposed to call upon a merchant residing in a foreign country to show cause against an execution issued against him on a bill of exchange, and he thought this was the first time such a principle had been introduced into the law of England.
 MR. SPOONER,  speaking on behalf of those who had voted in the minority on the previous division, said that he joined most cordially in the attempt to put down fictitious defences, and desired to justify no man who, whether inadvertently, through misfortune, or with intent, resorted to those fictitious defences. What he objected to was the mode in which it was proposed to accomplish this object, and which he held was in itself exceedingly mischievous.
 MR. SPOONER  said, there were clearly grounds for sending the Bill to a Committee. If the returns before the House were examined, it would be found that there were many cases in which the persons who paid for the means of spiritual edification had no clergyman resident near them and no church. He admitted that the third clause was not perfect, inasmuch as it left to the bishop the option of presenting or not; but that might be altered when the Bill went into Committee; it might be made compulsory upon the bishop in the case of parishes where there was no church to license a room for the performance of divine worship until sufficient funds had accumulated for the erection of a church. He should vote for the second reading.
 MR. SPOONER  thought that no answer had been given, or could possibly be given, to the most able speech of the hon. Member for Lynn (Mr. Gurney). The hon. Member for Bridport (Mr. Mitchell) had, indeed, endeavoured to show that the opponents of this Bill were not desirous of compelling persons to observe engagements into which they had entered. Now what he objected to was, that this measure gave to the holders of negotiable securities a power of oppressing their unfortunate debtors. He believed that the Bill would have a very harsh operation upon
 1263 1264
 MR. MITCHELL  said, he thought that the assertion of the hon. Member for Birmingham, that no petitions from mercantile men had been presented in favour of the principle of the present Bill was, to say the least, hazardous, and he had been much surprised at the arguments which he had employed. The hon. Member and the hon. Member for Lynn (Mr. Gurney) went upon the same principle; and as the hon. Member for Birmingham was in favour of inconvertible bank notes, so the hon. Member for Lynn was in favour of inconvertible bills of exchange. The whole argument of the case rested upon the principle, that when people had accepted bills of exchange they should be called upon to discharge the obligation into which they had entered. In his opinion, a bill of exchange was a most serious engagement, and he utterly repudiated the notion that open accounts and bills of exchange were to be placed upon the same footing, for the difference between them was of the broadest nature. It had been said that there ought to be a difference between bills of exchange and warrants of attorney, because, in the case of the latter, the attorney would explain the transaction; but ought that House to encourage persons to accept bills of exchange without know-
 1262
 MR. HANKEY  said, that no doubt great inconvenience had been experienced under the present system; and if the Scotch system were adopted he thought commercial transactions would be rendered more secure and payments be more promptly made. He considered it most discreditable on the part of any persons to accept bills which they had not the means of meeting at maturity, and he differed altogether from the hon. Member for Lynn, (Mr. Gurney) whose desire he understood was to place persons without capital in as good a position as persons possessing capital.
 MR. BARROW  seconded the Amendment. The question was not whether a Minister should be allowed to go from one office to another in the same Administration, but whether he should be permitted to accept a new office, with an entirely different set of men for his colleagues, without being obliged to go back to his constituents, and giving them an opportunity of deciding whether or not they would re-elect him as their representative.
 MR. W. BROWN  said, he approved generally of the enactments proposed in the two bills; but did not think them quite equitable as respected English and foreign bills of exchange, which would be placed in very different positions. To this point the attention of the Committee might also be advantageously directed.
 MR. KEOGH  said he was desirous of correcting an error into which the hon. Member for Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) had fallen, as to what had been said by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin. The right hon. Gentleman did not agree to the adoption of the principle of the bill in England, and object to it in Ireland, but he had understood him to say that the bill would require to be amended in Committee, in order to give similar powers to the Irish courts to those which were to be given in the English courts.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said that he looked upon this as altogether a commercial question, although hon. Members of the legal profession seemed unwilling to touch upon the commercial part of the subject. His opinion, based upon considerable experience in commercial affairs was, that if the bill passed in its present form it would have a most injurious effect upon the inland trade of the country. The introduction of bills of exchange for the settlement of inland accounts was of comparatively recent date; and, although no doubt evils had arisen from the system, yet, if this measure should be adopted, that species of transactions would be almost entirely abandoned, and great derangement must be occasioned in the mode of conducting the inland trade.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  conceived that the Bill would interfere very materially with those constitutional rights of electors which had been exercised for two centuries. He saw no reason for the proposed change, and should oppose the Bill.
 MR. WRIGHTSON  moved the second reading of this Bill, explaining that its object was to prevent the necessity of any person vacating his seat in Parliament, and presenting himself again to his constituents for re-election, on removing from one office of profit under the Crown immediately to another office of profit.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the sole object of the Bill was to promote the public convenience, and it only enforced a provision which had been suggested on several occasions before without any objection being urged against it. As to the knowledge which the hon. and learned Member desired to have with respect to the appointments to new offices, that information was usually contained in the  Gazette.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman's argument went too far for his purpose, and, as far as the approval of constituents was concerned in respect to the change of office by their representative, he (Sir G. Grey) did not see the force of the distinction attempted to be drawn. There was no doubt that there might arise great inconvenience if a Minister changing from one department to another, and being at the head of the department, should be absent from his place in Parliament for a week or a fortnight during his re-election for a county.
 MR. ROBERT PHILLIMORE  said, that the Bill proposed to deal with three very important questions—the union of benefices, the residence of clergymen, and the building of churches, in a very small compass. He thought the limit of distance, in the first clause, by which it was provided that the churches should be within a mile and a half of each other, was a good provision, and ought to be accepted by the House; but he did not think it advisable to make any change as to the value of the livings. He highly approved of the second clause, and thought its provisions ought to be extended to canons and prebendaries. As to the third clause, it was not open to the objection of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper), as it provided for the supply of the funds in a very legitimate way, and it was not to extend to any parish where a room was licensed for public worship. He would not offer any obstacle to the Bill going into Committee.
 SIR ERSKINE PERRY  said, that this measure was not the conception of a legal mind, but had originated solely with persons connected with commerce; and the two hon. Members who had just addressed the House laboured under a misconception
 1253 1254 l.; 1255 argumentum baculinum 1256
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was quite true, as the hon. Gentleman had stated, that in the Oxford University Act the stamp was abandoned by the Government, there being an equivalent given by the University by the payment of the salaried professors whose incomes had been previously provided for out of an annual vote. Trinity College, Dublin, was not in a condition to give a similar equivalent, inasmuch as there was no grant to Trinity College. The equivalent, however, offered was one that would give a public benefit, although it was not one from which the public would derive revenue. The subject was under consideration, and if Government thought them-
 1296
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he desired to ask an explanation of an answer given the other evening by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. F. Peel) the Under Secretary at War, as to the alleged refusal of Lord Methuen, the colonel of the Wilts Militia, to embark his men on board a certain transport ship which had been provided by the Government. The hon. Gentleman had most unaccountably stated that the reason of the refusal of the noble Lord was that the ship was not a steamer but a sailing vessel. He desired to know if the hon. Gentleman meant to convey to the House that this was really the only reason why the noble Lord had objected to embark his men? If so, then he desired the hon. Gentleman to be so good as to explain the sense in which he used the word "object." [Order, order.] If it were intended to prevent his putting such questions as might elicit an explanation of this extraordinary statement on the part of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of War, he (Colonel North) would most assuredly move the adjournment of the House in order to enable himself to speak upon the subject strictly within its technical rules, for the statement of the hon. Gentleman had caused the greatest concern throughout the officers of the army and militia, as this was the first time in the history of the army that any officer had objected to go on board a Government ship simply because it was not a steamer. It must be known that the only reason which could possibly justify a commanding officer in refusing to allow his men to embark on board a vessel must be a conviction that she was in such a state as to resider their conveyance in her unsafe. For the sake, then, not merely of the character of Lord Methuen—who would have embarked in a collier if necessary—but for the sake of the discipline and credit of the army at large, he hoped the hon. Gentleman would explain the sense in which he had stated that Lord Methuen had objected to allow his men to embark on board the transport because she was a sailing ship.
 COLONEL NORTH  then moved that "the House do now adjourn."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the loan was not like one contracted in the open market, and as the time over which the transaction would extend was likely to be a very long one, it had been thought by Her Majesty's Government that 3 per cent would be a reasonable rate of interest. With respect to the manner in which the money would be raised, the hon. Gentleman would see that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) could not answer his question without anticipating the statement which it would be his duty to make to the House immediately after Easter.
 CAPTAIN KNOX  said, he wished to know whether the Sardinian contingent was to be maintained at its original strength of 15,000 men? He asked this question because, if the auxiliary force had to be fed by our Commissariat, it would be likely to suffer a good deal, and its numbers would soon want replenishing.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would propose to amend the clause, by adding the words, "after the 1st day of January."
 MR. BENTINCK  seconded the Motion. "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, that She will be graciously pleased to ye directions, that there be laid before this
House, Copies of the Instructions relative to the Attack on Odessa, given to the Commander in Chief in the Mediterranean and Black Sea; and Copies of, or Extracts from, all Correspondence relating thereto."
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, it might, perhaps, be thought that the Motion he was about to submit to the House would have been better in the hands of a military man. He could only say that, owing to the absence, through illness, of a gallant relative of his, the Member for Cheltenham, he now had the honour to stand in his place. At the same time, he must say that he had met with no military difficulties in this case which should prevent any civilian from undertaking it, and it was his intention, as much as possible, to keep clear of all military tech-
 1311 1312 l. 1313 "Lord Raglan wishes the cavalry to advance rapidly to the front, follow the enemy,"—mark that word—"and try to prevent the enemy carrying away the guns. A troop of horse artillery may accompany. The French cavalry is on your left. Immediate. (Signed) AIREY." 1314 1315 "Lord Lucan was ordered to advance rapidly and follow the enemy in their retreat, and try and prevent them effecting their object. In the meantime, the Russians had time to re-form upon their own ground, and, from some misconception of the order, the lieutenant general considered he was ordered to attack at all hazards, and he ordered Major General the Earl of Cardigan to move forward with the light brigade." de mortuis nil nisi bonum 1316 "An easy leap To pluck bright honour from the pale-faced moon," The Times "We advanced down a gradual descent of more than three-quarters of a mile, with the batteries vomiting forth upon us shells and shot, round and grape, with one battery on our right flank and another on the left, and all the intermediate ground covered with the Russian riflemen; so that when we came to within a distance of fifty yards from the mouths of the artillery which had been hurling destruction upon us, we were, in fact, surrounded and encircled by a blaze or fire, in addition to the fire of the riflemen upon our flanks. As we ascended the hill the oblique fire of the artillery poured upon our rear, so that we had thus a strong fire upon our front, our flank, and our rear. We entered the battery—we went through the battery—the two leading regiments cutting down a great number of the Russian gunners in their onset. In the two regiments which I had the honour to lead, every officer, with one exception, was either killed or wounded, or had his horse shot under him or injured. Those regiments proceeded, followed by the second line, consisting of two more regiments of cavalry, which continued to perform the duty of cutting down the Russian gunners. Then came the third line, formed of another regiment, which endeavoured to complete the duty assigned to our brigade. I believe that this was achieved with great success, and the result was that this body, composed of only about 670 men, succeeded in
 1317 "In the attack at Balaklava, 400 horses were killed or rendered unserviceable; 370 were killed in action, and the remainder were in such a sad state from numerous wounds that they were obliged to be destroyed the following morning. But, in connection with that charge, I have to mention a much more serious circumstance—I mean the sad loss of human life that then occurred. No fewer than twenty-six officers and 276 non-commissioned officers and private soldiers, making a total of 300, were killed and wounded in that action. It is for this reason that I never can allude to the subject without the deepest feelings of regret. At the same time, though I do not pretend to more sentimentality than other men, it seemed to me at the time, and still seems, that the loss was so certain and serious, and the advantage to be gained by the attack so slight, as to make it matter of deep regret that the order was given. I received the order, however, to attack, and although I should not have thought of making such an attack without orders, and although I differed in opinion as to the propriety of the order, I promptly obeyed it." 1318 "C'est superbe C'est magnifique!" "Mais ce n'est pas la querre." bétise charge de fous. 1319
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, it was excessively painful for a military man to be placed in Lord Lucan's position, and he should not have ventured to trouble the House with any remarks, had it not been for certain doctrines on military law laid down by the Judge Advocate General. He agreed with a great deal of what had been laid down by that right hon. and learned Gentleman, but some points of his law he considered were perfectly new. The right hon. and learned Gentleman said the noble Lord could not raise the question, as it had already been decided by his superior authorities. This was tantamount to saying that no soldier had a right to have a question re-discussed in which the prerogative of the Crown was concerned. In the abstract he agreed with this principle, but the question to determine was whether a decision which the House and the country might think wrong should not be re-considered. The charges against Lord Lucan appeared simple, but they were very serious. In the first place, disobedience of an order in which Lord Lucan had exercised his discretion in not advancing, because the infantry were not sent. If he had obeyed, he must have advanced without the infantry; and having exercised his discretion, he was accused of having disobeyed the order. In a short time the second order came, and he was accused of having obeyed that order; and further, for not having brought the heavy cavalry into the same danger as the light cavalry. From his own opinion, and from the opinion
 1346 1347
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he would consent to withdraw his Motion, as upon legal grounds the inquiry it asked fur appeared to be impossible.
 MR. LLOYD DAVIES  said he fully concurred in the observations of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just addressed the House. He considered such a Bill as that under consideration would increase the difficulty that already existed, but it would change the complaining parties from the Dissenters to the Churchmen. It appeared to him that the object, so far as the conscientious ground was concerned, might be effected without any violation of public rights. They might deal with church-rates, he thought, on the same principle as they had dealt with tithes under the Tithes Commutation Act, and place the expense of supporting the fabric of the churches as a rent charge upon the land, leaving the elements of worship to be provided by the voluntary offerings of those who joined in the holy ordinances. With regard to raising a fund from pew rents in the country parishes, he believed it would be impracticable. In the two counties with which he was connected,
 1359
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he did not mean to trouble the House by entering into a discussion upon the general character of the measure under their consideration. He could not, however, refrain from entering his protest against its being brought forward at a period of the Session, when many hon. Members who took a deep interest in the question were precluded from recording their opinions upon the propositions which the hon. Baronet had just submitted to the House. They had received no intimation whatever as to the course which Her Majesty's Ministers intended
 1360
 LORD STANLEY  said, he apprehended that it was the wish of the House that no protracted discussion should take place upon that occasion with reference to the measure of the hon. Baronet opposite, but that such discussion should be postponed until the second reading of the Bill. That, no doubt, was the most reasonable course to adopt. At the same time, he must observe, that, as the measure contained so few details, and was so explicit—there being involved in it only one question of principle—it was matter of little importance whether the discussion of its provisions were to take place that evening or when it came to be read a second time. Everybody concurred in the opinion that the present state of the law with respect to church-rates was highly unsatisfactory. Looking back upon the history of the
 1361 1362
 MR. MILES  said, he could see no objection whatever to the introduction of this Bill. In common fairness the House ought to hear the opinions and to discuss the plans of every sect of educationists before they decided upon adopting any particular scheme.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he was not aware of having brought any charges against the Commander in Chief of the army in the Crimea. So far as he recollected, the only charge he made—if, indeed, it could be called one—was that, having brought those charges against Lord Lucan, and believed him to be incapable, Lord Raglan did not remove him from his command at once. After what had passed, he begged the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Berkeley) not to press his Motion to a division. The honourable and respectful manner in which Lord Lucan had been spoken of—the testimonies which had been borne to his military services and military capacity by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Disraeli) and other Members of the House, and also by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, would, he was sure, be satis-
 1354
 LORD ELCHO  said, that in seconding the Motion of the hon. Gentleman he did so from a deep conviction that it was due, not only to those gallant men who had distinguished themselves on that disastrous day, but also to Lord Lucan himself, that his conduct in this affair should be inquired into. No one, indeed, desired inquiry more earnestly than did Lord Lucan. Before, however, proceeding to advert to the facts of this case, he wished to say a few words with reference to his own position in connexion with it. It was a position alike painful and peculiar, for it must at all times be painful to have to defend a relative when his conduct was impugned, but it was doubly so when the accusation referred to an occasion on which he had the misfortune to lose a relative still Dearer and dearer. He said this, not with a view of exciting the interest or sympathy of the House, but simply to show that whatever effect the events of that day were likely to have upon him, they were not calculated to prejudice him in favour of Lord Lucan. It was from a deep sense of justice that he supported this motion, for never in his life had he been so firmly convinced of anything as that Lord Lucan was a grossly wronged and injured man. Lord Lucan, as he had just stated, courted inquiry into his conduct, and his duty, as Lord Lucan's relative, was to endeavour to induce the House to grant that inquiry. He knew too well the value of the time of the House to occupy it with any lucubrations of his own on military tactics, which, as those of a civilian, could have little claim on their attention. He should not, therefore, follow the hon. Gentleman (Mr. H. Berkeley) in fighting over again the battle of Balaklava, he would simply ask two questions which required an answer. The first was with regard to the order sent to Lord Lucan, which, it was said, he had misconceived; and on this he could not help remarking that, though they had heard much about what it did not mean, no one yet had attempted to say what it really did mean. These were the words of the order:—
 "Lord Raglan wishes the Cavalry to advance rapidly to the Front, follow the Enemy, and try to prevent the Enemy carrying away the Guns." 1320 "Lord Lucan, in his speech, omitted to state that at an interview with General Estcourt, which he had asked for the purpose the day after the battle of the Alma, he sent a message to Lord Raglan through the Adjutant General, expressing a hope that his Lordship had that confidence in him, as commanding the cavalry, that he would allow him to act on his own responsibility as occasions should offer and render advisable: for, otherwise, opportunities of acting would be frequently lost to the cavalry. To this Lord Lunn received no reply. Lord Lucan was led to make that communication in consequence of his having on the previous day taken upon himself without orders to remove the artillery and cavalry across the river, with the view of protecting the flank of the infantry in its ascent of the heights. This movement, though accidentally delayed by the upsetting of a gun in the river, proved most ad-
 1321 "At this conversation Lord Lucan expressed his hope that orders less peremptory, and leaving him some discretion, should be sent to him; for if orders were sent to him more fitting for a subaltern officer than for a general to receive, as a subaltern he would execute them, as he would not expose himself, in the absence of a discretion which had been denied him, to being charged with disobeying an order." 1322 who 1323 "It contains entirely new matter, and is replete with new charges, reflecting more seriously than before on my professional judgment and character. There is now imputed to me, and for the first time, not only the misconception of one order, but inattention to and neglect of another order; and, again, a total incapacity to carry out any instructions, and to avail myself of the means placed by his Lordship at my disposal. Charges so grave and of a character so exclusively professional cannot, I submit, be properly disposed of without a military investigation. I find myself therefore compelled to express my anxious wish that the Commander in Chief will be induced kindly to reconsider his decision, and consent to my whole conduct on the day of the action of Balaklava, the 25th of October, 1854, being investigated by a court-martial." 1324 not "His Royal Highness further orders it to be declared to Lieutenant General the Marquess of Granby that he is persuaded that if he had had the good fortune to have him at the head of the cavalry of the right wing his presence would have greatly contributed to make the decision of that day more complete and more brilliant. In short, his Serene Highness orders that those of his suite whose behaviour he most admires be named (Lord George Sackville, not included in the list), and his Royal Highness desires and orders the generals of the army that upon all occasions when orders are brought to them by his aides-de-camp they be obeyed punctually and without delay." 1325 1326 "An officer who may be suspended, and feels his character unjustly impeached, may demand an investigation of his conduct by court-martial, which, if not attended with manifest injury to the service, ought to be granted, that an opportunity of justification may be afforded. Lord George Sackville, having been suspended and divested of all military employ, and finding his character to be impeached in the public opinion, demanded an inquiry into his conduct, which the King, from motives of justice and humanity, and regard to the reputation of an officer of such high rank, readily granted. Captain Norris, of the Essex, even after having resigned the command of his ship in the Mediterranean, finding his character had been aspersed by his officers in the engagement off Toulon, applied to the Admiralty Board for a public investigation of his conduct, and a court-martial for that purpose was accordingly ordered." 1327 1328 Simmons on Courts-martial "It was quite evident that courts-martial were as strictly derived from and formed part and parcel of the law of England, as any Courts depending on Statute could be. It had been aptly observed by Mr. Tytler, The Mutiny Act was,
 1329 Hansard, "As we in this House are the great inquisitors of the nation, this, Sir, was the reason—and it is a sufficient reason—for an inquiry into the case, and the end we proposed to ourselves by such an inquiry was, to vindicate the innocent and to punish the guilty." "When there appeared to be a failure or want of justice on the part of the Crown, we may inquire into the conduct of any officer, or into the proceedings of any court-martial." 1330 "I consider that one of His Majesty's Ministers ought to be at the head of the army—ought to be held responsible to this House for the administration of the army, and be present by himself or delegate in his place in the House of Commons to answer to the questions and complaints of the people with reference to his conduct in the administration of military affairs."—[ See Hansard, "Whenever we hear the word prerogative made use of in this House, we may feel convinced that some abuse is about to be defended—some attempt is about to be made to escape inquiry—to shrink from responsibility."—[ See Hansard, 1331 "He was afraid, if that House became a court, of revision for military offences, it would infringe on the great principle of the constitution by which the army was placed under the exclusive control of the Crown." 1332 1333
 MR. SCOTT  said, he could have no objection to withdraw the Motion if the current of opinion was against it. Nothing was further from his intention than to cast any reflection on the conduct of Admiral Dundas; and he believed that if the papers were produced they would remove every shadow of a stain from the character and conduct of the gallant Admiral. He hoped, however, some Member of the Government would state that Admiral Dundas had done all that he had it in his power to do.
 MR. SCOTT  said, he would now beg to move the Address of which he had given notice. It was not his intention to occupy the time of the House with many remarks, but he thought that as they had now arrived at the anniversary of the declaration of war, it was not too early to ask for some explanation regarding the first enterprise which had been undertaken, and he also thought that Her Majesty's Government should feel indebted to him for bringing forward this subject, because it afforded them the opportunity of showing their foresight and sagacity if the war had been well conducted, whereas, if it had been mismanaged, it would afford the country an opportunity of correcting the errors which had been committed. There were
 1300 l. l. l., l. Furious 1301 1302 fait accompli, 1303 cheval de bataille, Palmam qui meruit ferat. Tiger, 1304 Vladimir "Parturiunt montes, nascitur ridiculus mus." 1305 The Economist l. 1306 corps d'armée
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  said, he wished to inquire whether any security had been taken that the a Sardinian troops should be armed with the new Minié rifle? because, if they were to be armed with the old musket, they would not be of much use.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he begged to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, whether there still existed in Turkey a law which condemns to death a Mussulman convert to Christianity; and, if so, whether this Government, or our allies the French, have or intend exercising their influence to abolish so unjust a punishment?
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT : Does not that apply to Christians becoming Mussulmans and then apostatising, and not to the case which I have put?
 MR. A. STAFFORD  said, he thanked the hon. and gallant Member for Brighton (Sir G. Peche11) for affording him an opportunity of adverting to the conduct of Admiral Dundas, which it was not too much to say had been severely criticised upon some former occasions. He believed that the defence of Admiral Dundas was to be found in the speech of the gallant Admiral who had just resumed his seat. As far as Admiral Dundas was individually concerned, he was sure that nothing would gratify him more than that every paper transmitted to him since he had assumed his great command, should be laid upon the table of the House. If, however, any member of the Government thought it was not conducive to the interests of the public service that the papers should be produced, no one would be more ready to endure criticism, or to submit to attacks and imputations, and to submit to them in silence, as was the duty of any man accepting a post of such difficulty, than Admiral Dundas. And he would take that opportunity of saying that he thought the House must feel that the silence of Admiral Dundas under all the imputations cast upon him contrasted favourably with some examples recently before them. It was the fashion to say that, when Admiral Dundas was removed from the command, Odessa would fall, and Sebastopol would be taken. Well, the gallant Admiral had been removed, but Odessa had not yet fallen, nor had Sebastopol been yet taken. He entirely approved of the reasons alleged by the right
 1310
 MR. DISRAELI : I cannot refrain, Sir, from expressing my opinion that the question before us to-night ought not to be the subject of a division. Having followed with much attention this debate, I entirely sympathise with the feelings of a gallant soldier like Lord Lucan, who, after having served his sovereign and his country with great courage and devotion, finds himself, at a moment like the present, in the peculiar position in which he is placed. I think, however, the noble Lord must have felt that, in a free country like this, where every man has the power, by some means or other, of appealing to opinion, and placing his conduct fairly before the public, great as are the difficulties in which he has been placed, the appeals he has made to the calm reflection of his countrymen have not been unattended by satisfactory results. But, whatever may be our feelings with respect to the noble Lord, and however we may
 1348 1349 1350 1351
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, in the observations which I made to the House, I certainly did not intend to cast any imputations individually on the Duke of New castle. I have on all former occasions avoided making imputations on individual Ministers. I hold the Cabinet responsible, and not individual Ministers, and therefore I made no particular imputation on the Duke of Newcastle as distinguished from the rest of the Cabinet. But I beg to say in explanation, that I recognise no difference between the late Cabinet and the present; I look on them both as the same Administration.
 MR. DISRAELI : The House, Sir, ought to recollect that the irregularity of which the noble Lord has complained originated in a correct answer not having been given by the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary at War to a question of an important character, which was, why the commanding officer of a body of militia had declined to allow his men to embark on board a Government transport. The answer of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary at War, on the part of the Government, was, I must say, eminently unsatisfactory. And not only was it unsatisfactory, but it was calculated to lead to serious misconceptions in the public mind as to the state of discipline in the army. This was a matter which it was clear must be brought before the House; and I should have imagined that the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary at War, would have availed himself of this opportunity to explain his extraordinary statement.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, it was not his intention to bring forward that night his Motion upon the subject of reformatory schools, because he hoped that Her Majesty's Government would introduce a measure on the subject, and he had only given his notice because they had delayed to do so. But he should, as early as possible after the recess, introduce a Bill for the amendment of the Youthful Offenders Act of last Session. The amendment he should propose was nothing more than to facilitate the operation of one portion of that Act, which had not been effectually carried out—namely, the recovery from their parents of the cost of the maintenance of children at the reformatory schools. It was very important that the parents should not be relieved of the cost of maintaining their children, by their being sent
 1370
 MR. LUSHINGTON  said, the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley) had stated that the question had been taken up by several Governments. So far, however, as he knew, no Government had done so since Mr. Spring Rice had introduced his Bill in 1847. He (Mr. Lushington) should be glad of any reasonable proposal for the settlement of the question. He hoped that such a one would emanate from the Government.
 MR. PACKE  said, he thought that the House ought to receive some explanation as to the course which the Government intended to pursue with respect to this measure. He had last year asked the Government what course they proposed taking with regard to church-rates, and the noble Lord the Member for London had said in reply, that he would, after the recess, state the intentions of the Government on the subject; and now he thought that it was very necessary for the House to know how far the Government approved of the measure of the hon. baronet. He himself had not heard anything to induce him not to offer a decided opposition to the measure, which appeared to him to give to church-rates an optional principle which was highly objectionable. By the levying of tithes all were called upon to contribute to the support of the clergy, and it appeared to him to be inconsistent that a provision should be kept up for the support of the clergy, while provision for the repair of the churches in which they were to preach was abandoned.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member has forgotten to move the adjournment of the House.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he did not care what course the Government intended to pursue, but, acting on his own judgment, he should oppose the Bill. He had heard with great satisfaction the speech of the hon. Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond). He himself was actuated by no hostile spirit to Dissenters; on the contrary, he respected them, and was honoured with the support of many of them, but he would not shrink from the duty of supporting the Established Church. He always took a straightforward course, whether right or wrong, and he felt bound to oppose a Motion which would undermine
 1366
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he must express the gratification he felt, that Lord Panmure had issued a circular to the militia, in conformity with the assurance given to the House a few evenings ago. He ventured to say, on the part of that service to which he had the honour to belong, and on the part of that corps of which he had the command, that a finer body of men did not exist in the world. He did not wish to make a boast of what he had done or what he might do, in spending any sums of money within his power to make them efficient. He had heard the statement made the other evening by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, about the enrolment of the militia, with great delight, and he had immediately telegraphed it to his regiment. [ Cries of
 MR. C. VILLIERS  said, the question before the House was, whether upon a certain statement of facts they would agree to an address to the Crown praying that an inquiry by court-martial should be instituted into the conduct of the Earl of Lucan; and as it was his duty, from the office which he had the honour of holding, to be acquainted with the principles and practice which regulated the military tribunals of the country, it might be convenient if he thus early addressed the House on the subject. He should not dispute with the noble Lord about the right of Parliament to interfere in matters affecting the army, though he thought some of his noble Friend's views were somewhat extreme on that matter. He should confine himself to the question of the particular claim for interference put forth in this case. In the first place, he must observe that his hon. Friend (Mr. H. Berkeley) had brought this Motion forward, not so much as an original proposition for inquiry, as an appeal from a decision which had been already given by the Crown, by the Commander in Chief, by the other House of Parliament, and by the legal officers who had been consulted. He would not question the propriety of his hon. Friend in adopting this course, but he would merely observe that the hon. Gentleman, instead of proposing any other mode of inquiry, asked for a court-martial upon the Earl of Lucan, with the perfect knowledge that it was the precise form of inquiry already demanded by Lord Lucan himself, decided upon by the authorities to which he had referred, and for the refusal of which reasons had been assigned. Holding the peculiar office which he did, the facts of this case, as is usual in cases where a general court-martial was contemplated, had been communicated to him for the purpose of advising whether it was one in which a court martial should be appointed. He had viewed it without reference to the station of the person, or some of the peculiarities attending it,
 1334 1335 1336 1337 autrefois acquit 1338 1339 1340 1341 1342
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the same reasons which induced him to object altogether to the Motion would also preclude him from adverting in any detail to the only portion of the observations of the hon. Gentleman which had the slightest reference to his Motion. He (Sir C. Wood) should not be justified in troubling the House with statistical information respecting the inhabitants of Odessa, and some other matters to which the hon. Member
 1307 1308 "Ut pueris placeas, et declamatio fias."
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, he was willing that the Motion should be negatived, but he thought that as matters stood there was one person who could not but feel aggrieved at the course which the debate had taken, he meant Lord Raglan. The Motion had been brought forward with a view of defending Lord Lucan, but had resulted in a series of attacks on Lord Raglan, who as an absent man had every right to complain. He hoped, that while Lord Raglan remained at the head of the army, nothing would be permitted to transpire in that House which could damage his reputation or impair his authority. He had no objection to the course suggested by the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, but he humbly entered his protest against the charges which his noble Friend (Lord Elcho) had made against Lord Raglan while defending his relative, Lord Lucan.
 MR. E. BALL said : the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down down had cast upon the hon. Baronet the Member for the Tower Hamlets (Sir W. Clay) imputations of a most ungenerous and unfounded nature. The hon. Member for West Norfolk had objected to the introduction of this measure, because the House was about to adjourn till after Easter; but he (Mr. E. Ball) thought that that was just the reason why the Bill ought to be introduced now, because in the Easter recess hon. Gentlemen would have an opportunity of considering it. The hon. and learned Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Wigram) had said that the great objection to this measure was, that, if it were passed great difficulties would be experienced in obtaining money to repair churches in country places. He (Mr. E. Ball) presumed that the poorer part of the population in those places were Dissenters, and yet they contrived to build and repair their chapels and to support their ministers. You could scarcely find one country place throughout the whole of this magnificent kingdom, in which there were not Dissenting chapels which were supported by the voluntary contributions of Dissenters. Why, then,
 1364
 MR. CARDWELL : Sir, before the discussion closes, there is one point that I think should not be left in doubt. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) has stated that, in his opinion, the late Government were, actuated in the recall of Lord Lucan by feelings connected with the difficulties in which they were placed by the public demand for a victim. Now, that is an imputation of a character that should not be left in any degree of uncertainty. I did understand that the answer of the noble Lord at the head of the Government intended to go to that point and to negative the statement, when he said that the ground on which Lord Lucan was recalled was the incompatibility which, in the opinion of the late Government, existed between the discharge of duty by the Commander of the Forces and the continuance of Lord Lucan in his command.
 MR. MIALL  seconded the Motion.
 MR. FRENCH  said, he would admit that there might be some technical difficulties in the way of granting a court-martial, but still he thought the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Judge Advocate was not justified in his sneer against Lord Lucan for not having asked for a court-martial on the evening of the action of Balaklava. Lord Lucan, however, could not have demanded inquiry, immediate inquiry, on the spot, for he never dreamt that a report would be made such as that which had been made. Indeed, he had been assured by General Airey and others that the report would be favourable to him; and it was only when Lord Raglan's report came back to the Crimea that he learned what had been done. To the motion of the hon. Member (Mr. H. Berkeley) he had no objection, but he did object to the mode in which it had been met by the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Judge Advocate. The hon. Member for Bristol had spoken highly of the heavy cavalry charge, but he had not done justice to his noble and gallant Friend (Lord Lucan), for he had omitted to mention that this movement was ordered by him in person. No doubt the charge was brilliantly executed by General Scarlett, but the whole merit and credit of the business were due to Lord Lucan. The hon. Member said that Lord Lucan did not attend to the first order of Lord Raglan; but the reason was, because it was impossible to be carried out, for redoubts could not be captured by cavalry alone. The order was peremptory to wait fur the infantry, but they did not arrive, and there was no reason to suppose that the order had been given to the infantry to advance. If it was the intention of Lord Raglan that the infantry should advance upon the redoubts, that order was never given. The second order was so exceedingly plain that it could not be mistaken by any one. The Russians had never made any attempt to carry off the guns that were in the redoubts abandoned by the Turks. Captain Nolan
 1343
 MR. FRENCH  said, he wished to call attention to the irregular departure from
 1298
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he should be glad of some further explanation of the intentions of the Government. Several of the education Bills would come on before the noble Lord's (Lord J. Russell's) return, and what was to be done with them? The Bill of the hon. Member for Manchester was a secular Bill, and excluded religion; the Bill of the right hon. Member for Droitwich provided for teaching the religion of the majority. He (Mr. Hadfield) disapproved of the caricatures and hideous representations of the ignorance of the people, which had been so industriously depicted. It was not fair or honest that no mention was made of 2,300,000 children being taught religiously in the Sunday schools, by 263,000 teachers who possessed their confidence and affection.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether it was the intention of the Government to propose during the present Session any measure for abolishing the stamp duties on matriculations and degrees in the Universities of Cambridge and Dublin, and thereby to place students in those Universities in the same position, as regards stamp duties, with students in the Universities of Oxford, Durham, London, the Queen's University in Ireland, and the several Scotch Universities.
 MR. MACARTNEY : Under what head of the Estimates does that 100,000 l.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he wished to ask the hon. Secretary of the Treasury whether any, and what, sums of money have been expended on behalf of the na-
 1294 virtÙ
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he very much wished to know what was the use of retaining a law that was practically inoperative? In the town which he had the honour of representing there had not been a church-
 1365
 MR. H. DRUMMOND : Sir, it is just because I agree in the "major premise" of the noble Lord's proposition that I have arrived at an exactly opposite conclusion. It is because the measure differs in no respect from other similar measures, and that there can be no reason why we should not state our opinions upon it at this stage, that I oppose its introduction. Sir, this whole question is another instance of the many which we have seen since the Reform Bill of an error persisted in by our rulers till it becomes intolerable, and forces on the people something which they think is an amendment, but which always is, and never can be other than, a complete revolution. The evil insisted on for years is the partition of churches into pews. Nothing I have ever heard has justified—nothing can ever justify—this, which has now become a most intolerable nuisance. Next, there is the gross injustice of applying rates to rites of worship which they were never intended to support. When you admitted the principle of toleration to Dissenters, they had a right to object to have anything raised from them for the rites and worship of the Established Church. But the churches of England are national property. And you cannot separate this question from another. The only way in which you can deal with the Church here (however you may dispute elsewhere as to the meaning of the word) is by looking to the buildings in which the members of the Church assemble for worship and the salaries of the ministers who preside over them. With every other meaning of the word we have nothing to do. And the moment you admit that it is not a national obligation to uphold those buildings and pay those ministers, you had better do the bold and honest thing, which nine-tenths of the supporters of this measure mean and desire to do—that is to pull down the Established Church—[ loud cries of 1363
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, he thought the suggestion of the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir S. Northcote) as to industrial schools was deserving of attention. It was clear that some compromise must be come to by the advocates of the five Bills before the House, and, for his own part, he should be quite willing to accept of some such moderate plan as that in operation in Ireland, embracing the use of Scripture extracts in the schools.
 MR. WILSON  said, it was first suggested to the Government that they should purchase the whole of the collection. That suggestion was considered by the Government, and it was decided that the sum of 12,000 l. l. l.
 MR. WILSON : There is a special Estimate by itself in the Civil Contingencies.
 MR. WILSON  said, that in conformity with former precedents, the accounts, in such a case as the hon. Gentleman had put, would be furnished within twenty-eight days after the adjourned meeting of the House.
 MR. FLOYER  said, he did not feel himself bound by any arguments which had been raised respecting the interests of large towns. For many years past the interests of large towns had been too exclusively considered by that House, and it was now time to consider the interests of county constituencies. They were often called upon to vote large sums for the support of such institutions as the British Museum and National Gallery, because they afforded means of instruction and education; but what institution could compete with the National Church as a great public instructor for the poorer classes, and how could they refuse the small sum required for church-rates throughout the country, when they so willingly granted large amounts for the purchase of objects of  virtù
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said he should oppose the Motion of the hon. Member for Bristol and at the same time he must call upon the House of Commons to be cautious how it sanctioned a Motion which might be drawn into a most danger-
 1344
 MR. HENLEY  said, he could not agree to a proposal to sweep away church-rates without any substitute being provided, but, without entering into any argument, he thought the best protest he could make
 1369
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought that, with so many schemes before the House, there was danger of something like a triangular dual on the subject of education. He could not say he agreed with the principle either of the noble Lord's (Lord J. Russell's) Bill, or of the measure introduced by his right hon. Friend (Sir J. Pakington), and he should certainly not be sorry to see the scheme of the right hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) in competition with the other plans before the House.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he was not quite satisfied with the reply of the hon. Secretary for the Treasury.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he begged to point out to the Chancellor of the Exchequer that Parliament might meet in the autumn, and be prorogued within twenty-eight days. In that case, the accounts for the year would not be laid before the House at all.
 MR. WIGRAM  said, as far as he could gather from the statement of the hon. baronet, the present bill was exactly the same in effect as that of last year, notwithstanding the alterations which it was proposed to introduce into it. As far as he could understand the hon. baronet's explanation, it did not differ either in principle or substance from the previous measure. It was simply a Bill to abolish church rates. There, however, appeared to be in addition to that a provision to enable persons voluntarily to contribute towards the support of the national Church; but without a Parliamentary enactment, he apprehended that enabling clause would be found in many cases wholly inoperative. It was also, he understood, proposed to allow money to be raised for the purpose by letting the pews. In many parts of the country, especially in the rural districts, that would be very objectionable. There might be no very great objection to it, probably, in some of the large towns, where wealthy persons generally occupy the pews, who would be willing not only to pay for their sittings, but also to contribute towards the maintenance of the fabric of the church, and the ministration of the elements; but in the country parishes any such provision would be wholly ineffective. Generally speaking, those parishes were too poor to raise funds for supporting or upholding the church, and if they failed, as he believed they would, in raising the funds by voluntary contributions, he much feared that they would not be able to let their pews. On a former occasion it had been shown that neither in point of law nor principle was the demand for the abolition of church rates founded upon any plea of justice or expediency. The land of the country was as much bound to the payment of that impost as any other to which it was liable. It was a common law obligation attaching to the land, of which the owners were aware when they came into possession of the property. The demand for the abolition could not, therefore, rest upon any plea of justice. Then, with regard to expediency, the national churches were the national property of the country; they tended to the public good, and the promotion of morality and religion,
 1358
 MR. SPOONER  said, that the main reason given by the noble Lord for entertaining the project of a total abolition of church-rates was the alteration of the law in regard to the collection of those rates; that alteration took place in August, 1853, and yet in the year 1854 he found the noble Lord concurring with the noble Lord the Member for the City of London in a vote declaring that it would be dangerous to society to effect a total abolition of church-rates. Without entering into the merits of the question, he should take the same course as that of his right hon. Friend who had last addressed them, and vote against the introduction of the Bill.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he quite agreed that it was very desirable that the House should be put in possession of the different propositions made for the extension of education. There were now five schemes before them, two for Scotland, and three for this country, namely, the Government measure, the Bill of the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington), and that now proposed by the right. hon. Gentleman, (Mr. M. Gibson). Upon the principle of these Bills it was premature as yet to pronounce an opinion; but he wished to ask the Government whether they intended to proceed with the Bill of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London on the day at present fixed for its second reading, and whether, soon after Easter, they would be prepared to state the details of the scheme upon which they thought the education of this country ought in future to be conducted?
 MR. BELLEW  said, he adhered to the
 1345
 MR. BELLEW  said, it was clear that the loan was proposed to be made, at a rate of interest at which Sardinia could not herself have borrowed the money in the open market. If Her Majesty's Government were going themselves to borrow the money, and if they should find themselves obliged to pay more for it than 3 per cent, then it would not be a loan to Sardinia at all, but a subsidy—a subsidy, at all events, to the extent of the difference between the interest which this country paid and received. He thought it would have been much better to let Sardinia go into the market for herself, even if it should have
 1299
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that in reference to the remarks of the hon. Member for Dudley (Sir S. Northcote) there was a provision in the Bill for the establishment of industrial schools.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that having been Chairman of a Committee of inquiry into the subject of education, which sat the whole of one Session and part of another, he thought it his duty to submit a plan to the House such as, in his view, appeared consistent with the evidence taken before that Committee. If the Committee had reported in favour of any particular scheme he would not have presumed to do so; but, as they made no Report, he thought it right to ask the House to see a plan which was based upon the information there obtained. He did not propose to introduce the measure in any antagonistic spirit to the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich (Sir J. Pakington.) He felt that their objects were at least the same. He believed that in material points, perhaps the most material, they were agreed. They were agreed that schools should be free and supported by local rates; hut he thought the Bill he now asked leave to introduce would accomplish what the right hon. Baronet professed a wish to accomplish, but failed to effect, by his measure—namely, the establishing of entire local management and control in reference to the rates, and securing liberty of conscience. He was sure it would be to the advantage of the right hon. Gentleman that he should know in what those who promoted the secular scheme differed from those who promoted the plan which he had undertaken to carry through Parliament, and that it would be more convenient to see those differences in the form of a Bill than in amendments proposed on his measure during its passage through Committee. He should therefore move, without further preface, for leave to bring in a Bill to establish free schools in England and Wales.
 MR. MITCHELL  said, he had been informed, on good authority, that the usual number of troops in Odessa was from 5,000 to 6,000 men, that there were not barracks for more than that number, and that when a larger force happened to be in the place, the authorities were obliged to billet them upon the inhabitants. His informant also said, that since the month of May, 1854, no troops had been billeted at private houses, and he (Mr. Mitchell) thought, therefore, it was clear that since that month there had been no addition, even temporarily, to the garrison of Odessa. By far the greater proportion of the Rus-
 1309
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that Lord Methuen had heard that the Lancashire regiment of Militia had been sent out in a steamer, and had naturally asked for what reason the Wiltshire regiment of Militia was to be sent in a sailing ship.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the principle of the Bill of his noble Friend the Member for London, and of the Bill of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich, was the same. The Bill of his noble Friend would not be proceeded with on the 16th of April, the day fixed, but would be proceeded with shortly after the return of the noble Lord.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he hoped it was not the intention of the hon. Gentleman opposite to east any reflection on Admiral Dundas. If the papers for which he asked were produced they would completely establish the reputation of that gallant Admiral, than whom a more able or vigilant officer did not exist. There had been but one ship of his, the  Tiger,
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he should like to know why the rate of interest was only 3 per cent which had been charged for this loan? Five per cent would have borne a much fairer relation to the existing value of money all over the world, Besides, he should like to know how the money was to be raised? If they had to go into the market to borrow this 2,000,000 l.,
 SIR JAMES DUKE  seconded the motion.
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, he was of opinion that if, as was asserted, the principle of the present measure was the same as that of the Bill rejected last Session, the existing law was entitled to the same support it then received. The noble Lord the Member for London on that occasion took the high ground that church-rates stood on the same footing as the hereditary institutions of the country, and the upholders of the system might, therefore, look with some confidence to the support of a Go-
 1367
 MR. ROBERT PHILLIMORE  said, he cordially concurred in the wish that had been expressed by the hon. Gentleman opposite, that Government would bring in a measure to settle this long-vexed question; at the same time, he was not inclined to offer any opposition to the first reading of the Bill of the hon. Baronet. He thought it due to the House and to the subject that hon. Members should have the opportunity of reading the clauses of the Bill before they were called upon to decide upon them. If, however, the hon. Baronet imagined that he held out any inducement to Churchmen to concur in his object by the proposal to let the area of the church to the best bidders, he would find himself greatly mistaken. He was astonished, when he heard the hon. Baronet say, that he proposed to make but a very slight alteration in the law of the land. Why, it was impossible to make a more serious alteration in the common law of the land than to make the whole area of the church divisible into pews, to be let to the highest bidder. To this part of the measure he should give his most unqualified opposition. He was aware that in some parishes such an expedient was resorted to, but that was the exception; and in the very last Church Building Act a clause had been introduced to remedy the evil. In the hon. Baronet's Bill, however, this, which was one of the worst anomalies of the Church of England, would be continued, and that which was now the exception made the rule. He should be glad to know from the hon. Baronet, whether he proposed to include Scotland in the operation of his Bill? He had never yet heard any argument why the consciences of the Dissenters in Scotland should not be relieved as well as the consciences of English Dissenters.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, there was one omission in both of the Bills before the House of which it was proper the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) should be informed. He felt that some of the difficulties which were most in the way of those anxious to promote education might be overcome by the establishment of industrial schools; but he saw no provision either in the noble Lord's Bill or in that of the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington) for establishing schools of such a character. At present many parents could not be induced to send their children to school while employment could be got for them. Now if you could establish industrial schools where children could be instructed in useful occu-
 1372
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY , in moving for leave to introduce a Bill for the abolition of church-rates, said it was not necessary for him to trespass but for a very short time on the patience of the House, as it was not his intention to touch upon debateable ground, or to enter upon arguments calculated to provoke opposition. The main object of his present measure was the total abolition of church-rates, in which respect it was similar to the Bill which he had introduced last year. He felt, however, that in abolishing church-rates certain substitutes would become necessary, and were, in fact, the consequence, or, more strictly speaking, the complement of the abolition of the church-rates. The right hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone) had, in the discussion of the previous year, alluded to certain difficulties which, in the event of church-rates being abolished must stand in the way of defraying by voluntary contributions expenses which were now defrayed by the rate. He (Sir W. Clay) had not been unaware of the difficulty, and had therefore not thought the right hon. Gentleman's suggestion unreasonable. He had since then looked carefully into the state of the law, and had endeavoured in the Bill he now asked leave to bring in, to find a way by which they might be obviated. If Parliament, on the one hand, abolished church-rates, it was bound, on the other, to remove all obstacles to Members of the church, by free-will offerings, maintaining her fabrics, and supporting the decent performance of her services and rites. The present Bill, like that of last Session, would provide for the continuance of church-rates in all cases where charges had been contracted upon them as a security under the authority of exsiting Acts of Parliament. The first purpose to which the new provisions of the measure were directed was to meet the condition of affairs that would exist after this impost had been removed. They would provide for the new position in which churchwardens would be placed in their relation to those persons who might voluntarily subscribe towards the support of the edifices and the ministrations of the Church, and also for cases in which churchwardens might be reluctant to undertake such functions. It would likewise give the contributors to this voluntary fund a control over its application. It would be seen, therefore, that the general principle and tendency of
 1356 status 1357
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : My right hon. Friend has correctly understood what I intended to say. The recall of Lord Lucan was founded entirely on the difference which took place between him and his superior officer, and there is no ground for the imputation which the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Disraeli) has cast upon the Duke of Newcastle of having made him a victim. For that act the Duke of Newcastle was not responsible any more than the rest of the Cabinet; it was the act of the Government, and I ant as much responsible for it as the Duke of Newcastle.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I entirely associate myself with the expressions which have fallen from the right hon. Gentleman who has just addressed us, and in concurring with him in objecting to this Motion, whether placed on the grounds urged by the Mover, or whether placed on the grounds put by my noble Friend who seconded the Motion. I entirely agree with the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, and trust that nothing has passed in this debate which can be considered as casting anything on the military character of the noble Lord who has been the subject of the present discussion. Nothing can be more painful to this House than discussions of this kind, involving the feelings of individuals and matters of professional conduct. There must be topics—whoever may be the subject, or whatever the occasion which has given rise to them—which the House must always feel a disposition to avoid, unless they are absolutely forced upon its attention; and these subjects are particularly to be avoided when they relate to officers of the army and to matters of military discipline. It is quite natural, in the present state of things, when the attention of the country has been so painfully directed to military events at the seat of war, that this House should sympathise with the public, and should have its attention more than usually directed to matters of this kind. At the same time, I think that the House ought not to forget that the command of the army is, by the constitution of the country, vested in the Crown; and if this House, whose powers I do not wish to limit or define, should take into its own hands matters involving the discipline of the army, or should take upon itself questions with respect to good services and the maintenance of good order, which ought to be left with the Crown, and its principal advisers, you may depend upon
 1352 1353
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, in reply to the invitation of the hon. Gentleman, I beg to say that I am not aware that any censure or imputation can be cast upon Admiral Dundas. Admiral Dundas stands as high as any gallant officer in Her Majesty's naval service. His conduct, while employed, has not done anything but honour to him, and if he should be employed again, I am sure he will deserve equal credit for the discharge of the duties that may be imposed upon him. The hon. Gentleman did not cast any imputation upon Admiral Dundas, and therefore my right hon. Friend (Sir C. Wood) did not think it necessary to vindicate him. Nobody accused Hercules, and there was no necessity to make his defence.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The question, Sir, now brought under the consideration of the House is undoubtedly one beset with great difficulties of both kinds. It is exceedingly difficult to maintain the law, and it is exceedingly difficult to alter it in a satisfactory mode, and those difficulties have been long felt. In the first place, the contest about church-rates keeps up animosities and religious differences between sects in a way very prejudicial, I think, to the general interests of the country, and prejudicial, I should also say, to the interests of religion itself. It must be admitted upon all hands that if an arrangement could be made which would provide adequately for the repair of churches and chapels without involving questions of religious controversy, it would be a great blessing to the country at large. There has been, for a long time, a difficulty with regard to the maintenance of the existing law, and I think that the decision which took place not long ago in regard to that law—and which was referred to by the hon. and learned Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Wigram)—has increased that difficulty. When it is stated by hon. Gentlemen opposite that the main-
 1368
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, of course it was very desirable that all the various schemes should be laid before the House, and there could be no objection to the introduction of this Bill.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  replied, that the force was to be kept up at 15,000 men; and he certainly hoped that they would not be starved for want of Commissariat supplies.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that if there should be a sufficient number of the new muskets ready, of course it would be for the interest of this country, as well as for that of the troops, that they should be armed with that weapon.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I put it to the House whether this kind of proceeding is not exceedingly irregular? First, I object to the practice of putting speeches in the form of questions; and then the hon. and gallant Gentleman, by way of curing that irregularity, fell into another; for I appeal to Mr. Speaker whether, on moving the adjournment, a Member ought not to confine himself to the reasons for the adjournment. Now, Sir, as to the questions put by the hon. and gallant Gentleman, I believe the real fact to have been this: that there was no want of zeal on the part of Lord Methuen, nor any indisposition to do the best that could be done for the service; but it appeared, on an examination of the ship, that she had not the accommodation for all the persons who were to embark on board, and which would be fitting for such a voyage.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I understand it to apply to the whole case.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The hon. Member will see, if he refers to the papers which were laid upon the table in May, 1844, called "Correspondence relative to executions in Turkey for apostasy from Islamism," that Sir Stratford Canning, on the 23rd of March of that year, writes a despatch in which he states that he has obtained an assurance from the Sultan, and a formal document from the Turkish Government, providing that no such executions should take place in future. In
 1295 "What passed at this audience is the more important from its formal character; and the Sultan, to give a greater value to it, after I had retired from his presence, called back the dragoman and desired him to assure me that what he had stated in public proceeded from his sincere convictions, and was, in fact, his real and sincere sentiment."
 LORD SEYMOUR agreed with the hon. Gentleman so far that he thought it was most desirable that the House should have the opportunity of discussing these estimates, and when they were brought on at a late hour they could not have an opportunity of considering the form in which they were arranged and of discussing them. It was little use to have items brought forward unless they were in a form which would enable them to discuss them under their several heads, and, when necessary, to ask for explanations concerning them. But when it was said that the Government were in fault, and that they had passed the vote surreptitiously, he must take their part, and say that they had no alternative in this case. On every night for bringing forward the estimates, so many motions were made before going into Committee, that it was impossible to get into Committee of Supply at a reasonable hour to discuss these questions. It was most desirable that hon. Gentlemen should bring forward general questions on notice of motion, and that when Supply came on they should merely bring forward those motions that had relation to Supply, and were properly applicable to the votes to be brought forward.
 COLONEL DUNNE said, that it was entirely the fault of the hon. Gentleman that the votes had not been discussed, he having brought them forward after twelve o'clock, and when he (Colonel Dunne) moved to postpone the vote on the Irish Post Office the hon. Member had divided the House against him. He considered that the hon. Gentleman had treated the House with great discourtesy upon that occasion.
 COLONEL KNOX thought it was due to
 1425
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to abolish the Jurisdiction of all the Ecclesiastical and Peculiar Courts in England and Wales respecting Wills and Administrations, to establish a distinct Court of Probate and Administration, and otherwise to amend the law in relation to matters testamentary. The hon. and learned Gentleman said, that in doing so, he was oppressed with the recollection of the many abortive attempts which had been made during the last thirty years to accomplish the object which he was new about to attempt to effect, and which he was sanguine enough to believe would now be attempted for the last time. The grievances to which he now hoped to put an end had been acknowledged, and had occupied the attention of successive Parliaments, for a period extending over that length of time. Such, however, had been the pertinacity with which every attempt to reform these courts had been resisted, and such had been the success of the efforts of the numerous persons interested the maintenance of these testamentary courts, that he believed as many as ten or twelve successive Parliaments had been quite unable to accomplish a change, and that during that period about a dozen or fifteen Bills which had been introduced for the purpose of providing a remedy for the acknowledged abuses had failed. Something, perhaps, was to be attributed to the peculiar disposition of the people of England; for when any grievances complained of in their institutions were proposed to be reformed or amended, there was always very great difficulty in conquering the feeling which they entertained, and which particularly distinguished the people of this country—the feeling that the institutions under which they lived were the best possible for the purposes for which they were established, and that there was no necessity for altering them. That difficulty having been overcome—after the grievances had been pointed out and proved, and something in the way of remedy proposed—the people at once transferred their attention from the grievances to a criticism of the proposed remedy, and refused to entertain them unless they were satisfied that they were the best that could possibly be imagined; and accordingly every proposal which had been made to apply a remedy to the evil now complained of had been met by a great number of objections, and
 1430 1431 1432 1433 1434 1435 Vict. 1436 d. s. d. s. 1437 1438 vivâ voce 1439 1440 1441 1442 1443 1444 Will. "That in case the office of judge, registrar, or other officer of the ecclesiastical courts of England and Wales, except the Prerogative Court, should become vacant during the period therein mentioned, the persons who should be appointed thereto should accept and take such offices subject to such regulations and alterations as thereafter might be made by Parliament; and should not, by reason of such appointment, acquire a vested interest in any office, or a title to any compensation in respect thereof; in case such office should thereafter be abolished by Parliament." Vict., "Every person who shall have been appointed after the passing of the first-recited Act, or who shall be appointed after the passing of this Act, to the office of judge, registrar, or other officer of any ecclesiastical court in England, shall hold the same subject to all the regulations and alterations affecting the same, which may hereafter be made
 1445 1446 l. l. 1447 l. l. l. l. l., l. l.; l. l. l. 1448 l. l. l. l. 1449 l., s. d., d. s. l. s. d. l. l., l. s. d., l. s. d., l., l. s. d. l. s. l.; l., l. l.; l. l. 1450 l., 1451
 COLONEL BOLDERO believed the immediate question before the House was the housing of the troops. He recommended the adoption of a description of housing so constructed that the soldiers themselves could be taught to erect them, to take them down, and replace them in another position. He also recommended the Clerk of the Ordnance to provide the men with tools of every description that they were likely to require, and that they should be taught not only to make roads but to construct works and mines, make fascines and gabions, bake their own bread, and kill their own meat. When the troops were assembled in great numbers, there was an excellent opportunity of teaching them many things which were of the highest utility to an army in the field, but of which ninety-nine out of 100 of the troops who had been sent to the Crimea were perfectly ignorant.
 LORD ELCHO asked if the Government were disposed to continue the grant for the promotion of Scotch agricultural statistics?
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT said, that he had sent out such instructions more than a year ago, particularly as regarded the hospitals at Scutari and Constantinople.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT stated that, so far as he could recollect, an offer of gratuitous service was made by Mr. George Pollock and also by Mr. Macpherson. But in the case of the latter gentleman, the offer was limited to serving for three months, and it was not thought advisable to accept the offers of service for so limited a time. At the time the offers were made the rule of the army service was, that civilians should be admitted to act in the rank of assistant surgeons. Subsequently that rule was altered, and civil surgeons were offered higher rank; and, finally, it had been determined not to confer military rank at all, but to convert the hospitals into civil hospitals. Mr. G. Pollock—very properly so, looking at his position in his profession—declined to act as assistant surgeon; but had he been willing to do so, he (Mr. S. Herbert) would certainly not have been willing to accept gratuitous service from any professional gentleman who would have had to work by the side of those who were receiving pay for the discharge of their duty.
 MR. DUNLOP asked the First Lord of the Treasury, whether—considering that by the Clergy Reserves Act, recently passed by the Legislature of Canada, and assented to by the Governor General in name of Her Majesty, it is declared in the preamble to certain of its enactments, that "it is desirable to remove all semblance of connection between Church and State,"—it was the intention of the Government to cease to maintain that connection in Canada, by no longer advising Her Majesty to nominate to vacant bishoprics in that Colony?
 MR. FREWEN wished to know if the Government had taken, or when they would take, any steps for the appointment of a new chairman of Ways and Means, as he understood the House had lost the services of Mr. Bouverie?
 MR. CRAUFURD said, he had observed in an evening print, which was supposed to be a semi-official organ of the Government, the statement that Mr. James Kenneth Howard had been appointed to succeed Mr. Kennedy at the Woods and Forests. He wished to know if the statement were correct?
 MR. CRAUFURD gave notice that, after the recess, he would call the attention of the House to the appointment of Mr. Howard.
 MR. HORSMAN said, that he fully admitted the importance of the subject, and thought that when a department had been as much attacked as the Poor Law Department the Government were bound to come forward and to state their view of its conduct; and he was bound to say that in his opinion the Irish Poor Law Department had discharged its duties very efficiently. Hon. Members who had spoken
 1422 l. l. 1423
 MR. FRENCH in rising to call the attention of the House to the sums annually voted for Public Service in Ireland towards the payment of the constabulary force and the salaries of the assistant bar-
 1410 l. l.; l.; l.; l. l. l., l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. "Now in the case of Ireland, if there be any
 1411 Dublin Evening Post, l. l., l. l. 1412 l. l. l.; l. l. l.; l. l., l. l. l.; l. l., s. d. s. d. l., l., l.; l., l., s. l., l.; l., l., s. 1413 "Supposing the nett annual value of property in Ireland to remain stationary, the future local taxation of the country, apart from municipal taxes, parish cesses, port dues, and light dues, may be estimated at 3 s. d. s. s. d., l. l. l.
 MR. G. DUNDAS said, that he desired to preface the question of which he had given notice by reading an extract from a letter received yesterday from a relative at Constantinople, for whose accuracy he could vouch. [Cries of "Order."] The subject was of extreme importance, and he would not occupy the time of the House for more than a minute. The extract was to this effect—
 "We left Balaklava a few days ago, with 330 sick on board. While we had the sick on board a steamer came in, with carcases of mutton and vegetables, and lay alongside of us. The medical officer requested I would apply for fresh provisions for the sick. Will you believe it? I had to go through so many forms that it was twenty-four hours before I could get them from the vessel actually touching our side, and, the weather having been unusually sultry from sirocco blowing, most of the meat was not fit for use. A second application took as much longer time, for another supply; and by the time the application was in proper order the meat had been landed and buried."
 MR. HADFIELD thought the country much indebted to the Solicitor General for introducing this measure, as the improvement of testamentary jurisdiction was one of the most urgent of law reforms. The country now obtained a revenue of about 3,000,000 l.
 MR. HEYWOOD rose to ask the Clerk of the Ordnance whether any public notice had been given of a recent examination for cadetships at Woolwich, and whether, on the non-appearance of candidates, a number of commissions in the artillery had been given without any special examination in scientific subjects?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE was ready to admit that uniformity of law between England and Scotland was a very desirable object, but apprehended that its attainment would be a matter of considerable difficulty. The important question of allowing probate in England to run in Scotland and confirmation in Scotland to suffice for England which was involved in the extension of this Bill to Scotland, would require very great consideration. It must be a reciprocal right, and great care would also
 1464
 MR. WILSON said, the measures hitherto taken had proved so successful as to encourage their continuance, and the co-operation of the Scotch farmers had been very useful. Out of 50,000 applications for information which had been sent out by the Highland Society only seventy had been unanswered—a striking contrast to the result of similar applications in this country. He hoped the example of the enlightened agriculturists of Scotland would have its due effect; and it was so creditable that the Government intended certainly to prosecute the measure, for which purpose they had certain funds in
 1404 l. l.
 MR. WILSON said, he was glad of the opportunity of explaining the course that had been pursued by the Government and also complaining of the course that had been adopted towards them. Those estimates had been on the table for three weeks; on every night there was notice of Supply, and—more than that—there was the usual notice of moving particular estimates: and on three successive nights he had consented to postpone them. On Friday last he thought to get those estimates on, but on that night first of all there was a motion on the question of the adjournment of the House, which occupied nearly two hours. Then there was a Motion on going into Committee of Supply, which occupied the House until twelve o'clock, and it was obviously inconsistent with the convenience of the House that they should bring on the Votes after that hour. The next night was Monday; on Monday, also, there was notice of Supply, and likewise notice that those estimates would be taken on that night; but the discussion on the newspaper stamp occupied the House until nearly twelve o'clock. It was, however, absolutely necessary that the Votes should be brought on on Monday night, though of course it was quite competent for any hon. Gentleman to get up and object to the proposition for going into Supply on that occasion. If such an objection had been made, it would have been his (Mr. Wilson's) duty to explain that it was absolutely necessary for the public service that they should then go into Committee, because if they had postponed the Committee to the period he was addressing them, they could not report until after Easter, and consequently not a shilling of the salaries could have been paid until the House met after the recess. It was necessary, therefore, if they stopped until five o'clock in the morning that that Supply should have been then taken.
 1418
 MR. J. BALL said, that having had the amplest opportunity of forming a judgment upon such a point, he was quite sure that no sectarian feeling had influenced the conduct of Mr. Power, the head of the Irish Poor Law, in the reductions which had been made. His opinion was that the Government should have had in view the political aspect of the question, and should have taken advantage of the opportunity which had offered some time ago, and appointed a Roman Catholic to be one of the chief Commissioners, as it was of more importance that one of these should be of that persuasion than the inspectors, who were, after all, subordinate officers. He thought it was more important that one member of the Commission should be a Roman Catholic than any of the inspectors, because the people looked with great jealousy on the decision of that body upon which there was no member of that same religion as the people themselves.
 MR. BRADY never remembered during his short experience, a question coming before the House which had excited greater interest in Ireland than this. The people of Ireland looked upon the dismissal of these inspectors as a direct attack upon their religion, and believed, after what had occurred in reference to this matter, that the right hon. Baronet, lately the Chief Secretary for Ireland, would never again have been able to face a Roman Catholic or liberal constituency; he might well, therefore, congratulate himself on his happy release to the Ionian Isles. He hoped that the present right hon. Secretary was not prepared to follow the example of his predecessor as to his appointments, who, under the semblance of liberality, had made
 1421 l. l. l.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR said, it was most unsatisfactory that the House should now be called upon to adjourn for a period of seventeen days, looking to time extremely critical state of affairs, to the anxious expectations as to the Vienna Conferences and their uncertain issue, to the growing agitation and discontent of the public mind, and to the high price of food in the principal towns. They were left in the most complete ignorance and mystery as to the intentions of the Government with respect to the mode in which they intended to levy taxes to provide for their reckless and extravagant expenditure. It appeared to him that the house was giving way to the most self-complimenting. Government that had ever sat upon the Ministerial benches. The Government could do nothing but compliment each other on what each had done, and no doubt that, in their own opinions, they all stood very high. Now, on the contrary, the whole country and Europe believed that they had done everything very ill, and history would comment upon their acts with the utmost severity. He contended that the House should not adjourn until they had the Budget before them, and until the country knew how it was to be taxed. There was only one newspaper in the metropolis that had the courage to support the Government. Let the House consider how our fifty colonies were treated. Representations were pouring in daily from all quarters, but there was no Colonial Minister to attend to them. Again he protested against the adjournment of the House.
 MR. MULLINGS asked the Chief Commissioner of Public Works and Buildings whether, having regard to the number of Judges both of law and equity, so greatly increased within the last thirty years, and that during that period no permanent courts had been provided for the additional Judges appointed, and to the want of proper accommodation for them, it was the intention of the Government to take any and what measures, and when, for providing proper buildings and accommodation for superior courts of justice in the metropolis?
 MR. NAPIER said, he did not rise to offer any opposition to the introduction of the Bill, or to comment upon the details
 1452 1453 1454
 MR. BLAND rose to call the attention of the House to the circumstances and manner under which the reduction of officers acting under the Statutes for the administration of the Irish Poor Law had taken place and was now being carried out. He should not have attempted to detain the House upon this subject, at such a time, had it not been a subject which had occasioned considerable excitement in Ireland; for the reduction and the manner of it had
 1419 ex officio 1420 ex-officio
 MR. BENNET inquired of the right hon. the Member for Wiltshire, whether Mr. George Pollock, assistant surgeon at St. George's Hospital, did not offer his gratuitous services to the army in the Crimea, and, if so, why his offer was not accepted? and he would put a similar question with regard to Dr. Hugh Macpherson, of the Bengal service.
 MR. MALINS said, he would not oppose the introduction of the Bill. The subject was one of the very greatest importance, and every proposition respecting it deserved the serious consideration of the House. To the Bill introduced last year into the House of Lords he had been prepared to offer his most determined opposition; but in the month of July the Government had thought proper to withdraw the measure. He congratulated the hon. and learned Gentleman on having now brought in a Bill so materially different from its predecessor; but he still objected to the proposal that the testamentary jurisdiction should be transferred to the Court of Chancery. The Commission of 1853, composed of men of the highest eminence, and free from any particular bias, had reported against adopting that course by a majority of ten to three, and had recommended the establishment of a Court having testamentary jurisdiction, but entirely unconnected with the Court of Chancery. The hon. and learned Gentleman now proposed to establish a distinct court which should be a branch of the Court of Chancery. Now he (Mr. Malins) confessed that he could not collect from the remarks of his hon. and learned Friend any reason why testamentary jurisdiction should be transferred to that Court. Last year he presented two petitions against the plan now proposed by the Solicitor General; one petition had also been presented, signed by the Lord Mayor and by 258 leading bankers and merchants of the City of London, who expressed their anxiety and alarm at the proposed transfer of the testamentary jurisdiction to the Court of Chancery, and who bore testimony to the satisfactory manner in which the business was conducted in the Prerogative Court of Canterbury, with accuracy, despatch, and security for the public interest; there was also another petition from professional men, from a body of solicitors, although against their own interest, since the measure which they
 1455 l. l. pendente 1456 lite; pendente lite. 1457 l. 1458 l.
 MR. KEOGH said, that whatever might have been the preconceived opinions of gentlemen with respect to these tribunals, they must have listened with satisfaction to the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down (Mr. Malins), because, though they might have been accustomed to think that the ecclesiastical courts were not the least expensive or cumbrous in the country, they had the assurance of the hon. and learned Gentleman that they were in every respect the most valuable courts that human ingenuity could devise, and that, amid their numerous merits—all of which he had not time in his short speech to enumerate—the most remarkable was that they cost the country scarcely anything. Everything that could be desired was, according to his hon. and learned Friend, to be found in Doctors' Commons, and the only regret
 1459 1460
 MR. MONSELL said, the hon. Baronet (Sir J. Paxton) was a formidable critic on a subject with which he was so well acquainted as that upon which he had just addressed the House, and he (Mr. Monsell) laboured under the difficulty of not having been aware before the hon. Gentleman rose of the character of the observations he intended to make, and of the fault he was about to find with the encampment at Aldershot. The hon. Gentleman, at the close of his observations, advised the Government not to proceed with the erection of so large a number of huts, but rather to place a certain number of the troops about to be encamped at Aldershot in tents. Unfortunately, however, it would be necessary to keep the troops at Aldershot, not only during the summer but
 1426
 MR. MONSELL said, that, in order to meet the augmentation of artillery and engineer corps, it had been found necessary to have a number of young men older than the cadets in the public school at Woolwich generally were. For this purpose the Lieutenant General or the Ordnance had first the idea of having the same examination as for cadets rising from a junior to a senior class; but it was found that at the age of between seventeen and nineteen there were not to be found at the Universities a sufficient number of young men whose attainments in mathematics equalled those of the senior class at Woolwich; consequently he had been driven to adopt another expedient, which was to communicate with the heads of the different public schools and colleges all over the country. By this means he had selected thirty young men, who had given the greatest possible satisfaction to the Lieutenant General and the Examiners, who, indeed, had stated that they were about the best lot that had ever come under their inspection. For the future the ordinary course of examination would, so far as was practicable, be resorted to; but he could not promise that if a similar emergency arose a similar expedient might not be resorted to.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS rose to complain of the manner in which these estimates, involving an expenditure of 2,750,000 l., 1416
 SIR DE LACY EVANS wished, as Parliament was about to adjourn for some time, to make some observations with regard to the momentous events which were
 1407 1408 1409
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL said, of course he had no knowledge of the particular case referred to; but he had no doubt it was the fact that the forms which had been established in times of peace, for the purpose of placing a check on the expenditure of the public money, had been multiplied to an extent which now interfered with the more essential object of securing the prompt supply of what was required. Instructions had, however, been issued by the Government that in matters such as the hon. Member referred to, all unnecessary forms should be dispensed with.
 MR. BOWYER said, he differed from many of the opinions which had been expressed, but he thought the measure con-
 1463 inter vivos.
 SIR GEORGE GREY said, he would cause an inquiry to be made into the state
 1428
 SIR GEORGE GREY said, he was not aware that it was the intention of the hon. Member for Roscommon to introduce the question of the relative taxation of England and Ireland on the Motion for the adjournment of the House. [Mr. FRENCH: I placed a notice to that effect upon the paper.] He did not think that the practice adopted by hon. Gentlemen of bringing before the House every variety of subjects on a Motion for adjournment was a very convenient one; and the course which had been taken that night fully illustrated the
 1414 1415
 SIR GEORGE GREY said, no episcopal vacancy had occurred in Canada since the Act passed, and he was not aware of any decision of the Government as to any alteration of the practice which had hitherto prevailed in respect to appointments to such vacancies.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY was afraid the noble Lord the Member for Totness (Lord Seymour) had hit upon rather an unlucky way of getting the Government out of their difficulty, because, on Monday night, when this motion came on, the house was already in Committee of Supply; so that there was no possibility of any motions being brought on in the mode pointed out. And besides that, the Government had already disposed of two very important motions on that evening—the one relating to the Sardinian loan, the other to the newspaper stamp—which had occupied the House until half an hour after midnight. Now, he would point out the disadvantage of the course pursued. He had himself an objection to urge against these estimates, founded upon an increase which had taken place in the inland revenue branch of them of 200,000 l. 1417 l., l. l. l. l. l.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON would take the opportunity of giving notice of a contingent Motion with regard to the extraordinary state of the Colonial Department. He would not repeat the arguments he had used on a previous occasion; but he would venture to say that every day which had elapsed since he had called the attention of the house to the subject had tended to prove the justice of what he had then said. Nothing could be more inconvenient, if not dangerous, than the present condition of the Colonial Department. The House had been told on a former occasion that, during the absence of the noble Lord the Member for London at Vienna, the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department (Sir George Grey) would discharge the duties of the Colonial Office; but they had since been informed
 1406
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON expressed his disappointment at being obliged to infer, from what had passed that night, that the Government intended to deal with only one branch of the important question of the reform of the ecclesiastical courts. The Attorney General for Ireland (Mr. Keogh) had misconceived the observation of the right hon. Gentleman the Member of Dublin University, when he imputed to him a sentiment of opposition to the plan of the Government. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Napier) merely expressed his regret, which was perfectly justified, that the Government had not availed themselves of that opportunity of settling the questions of church discipline and matrimonial jurisdiction simultaneously with that relating to testamentary matters. If the latter question were adjusted separately as now proposed, the two other branches of ecclesiastical jurisdiction, it was to be feared, would be left in a very unsatisfactory state. The Lord Chancellor, in the other House, in withdrawing the Bill of last Session on this subject, intimated that the Government would, during the recess, consider it, with a view to legislation on the whole subject. This was not a party question, but one on the necessity of settling which both sides of the House concurred; and it was therefore most desirable that the Government should grapple with it in all its bearings.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY said, that before the Motion for the adjournment was agreed to, he wished to draw the attention of the Home Secretary to the case of a man upon whom an inquest was held, on the 14th instant, at Charing Cross Hospital, and is whose death had been attributed
 1427
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON in rising to call the attention of the Government to the construction of the huts at Aldershot, said he was perfectly aware that the present was an inconvenient time to bring on a question of this description; but the suggestions he was about to make would be of very little use if reserved until after the Easter recess. At present only about 400 of these huts were completed, leaving 800 more to be constructed, and these, he thought, might be much improved, and a large sum of money saved. About double the quantity of boards that were necessary were put upon these huts; and the roofing was badly designed, because it was flat, and the water would certainly penetrate through. The boards were what were called feather-edged, and, consequently, as soon as the dry weather set in and the sun's power was felt, they would all start, and in two months, he would venture to say every hut now made would require another covering, besides the boards. He would
 1424 s.
 MR. ROBERT PHILLIMORE  said, he was convinced of the necessity of severing the spiritual from the civil jurisdiction of these tribunals; but he would reserve his observations on the details of the measure before the House for the Committee. It must be remembered, however, that there really was an ecclesiastical jurisdiction properly so called, of these courts, which it was important to ameliorate and preserve. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Napier) asked why the Government did not deal with that jurisdiction and institute a proper appellate court in cases of ecclesiastical offences? But it would be found that a more difficult problem could not be proposed to Parliament. Hon. Gentlemen should bear in mind the difficulties of this question, as to the reform of the civil jurisdiction of these courts, and that this was the forty-fourth year since the first attempt was made to reform the testamentary courts by Lord Stowell in 1812, and that after that no attempt was made until Lord Grey's Government. Mr. Phillimore then
 1461 vivâ voce 1462
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH said, several schemes had been brought under his consideration for the purpose of removing the law courts from Westminster Hall
 1403 l.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON in answer to the question of the hon. Member for Ayr, had to state that the appointment of Mr. Howard to the Woods and Forests was to take place, and that, according to Act of Parliament, the appointment would be communicated to Parliament within twenty days afterwards. The appointment of a new Chairman of Ways and Means would be moved when the House met after the Easter holidays.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he thought the Committee ought to feel indebted to the hon. Member for Stafford (Mr. A. Wise) for having called attention to the Report of the Commissioners of Audit, who, not for the first, but for the third time, had complained of the want of information in reference to these accounts. If Parliament required the Commissioners to perform their duty, they ought to have the means of properly discharging it. To know that the money voted was properly applied was even of more importance than cavilling about the amount to be granted. He had, on a former occasion, called the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the accounts of the Commissariat, and he was told that he need not trouble himself about them, as they would go before the auditors, who would supply all
 1481
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, the explanation of his hon. Friend was not satisfactory to him. It was quite true that this practice had gone on fur some time, but the same might be said of the army accounts. He believed it to be possible, though it might be difficult, to do with these Estimates exactly what was done with respect to the Army and Navy Estimates. There were works connected with the Admiralty as large as those in the present Estimate, and there was no such difficulty as the hon. Gentleman seemed to apprehend in having them audited by the Audit Board.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was an entire mistake of the hon. Baronet the Member for Evesham to suppose that the accounts of the Board of Works were not as much subject to audit as those of the Admiralty, or the Ordnance. They were thoroughly examined and passed by auditors, and went through precisely the same process as the accounts of any other public department. Tie only difference between the two related to a species of sub-audit which the accounts for certain works executed under the superintendence of the Board of Works now underwent. It had been found convenient in practice that the surveyors and other officers of the Board of Works should themselves examine the measurements of brickwork performed and other details con-
 1483
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHE-
 1485  said, he must beg to remind the hon. Gentleman that, on the last night before the recess, he expressly stated that the House would go into Committee on these Estimates after the second reading of his hon. Friend's (Sir B. Hall's) Bill, respecting the local government of the metropolis, had been disposed of. The Estimates themselves were delivered some days ago, just as they had always been annually, and there could, therefore, be no difficulty in a gentleman of his hon. Friend's experience, in two or three hours on any morning, making himself master of the subject. Great complaints had been made of the Revenue Estimates being brought in by his hon. Friend the Secretary of the Treasury at midnight; but the fact was, that he had been compelled to do so against his own inclination, and the notices on going into Supply were so numerous, that he was prevented from giving the necessary explanation. Happily, however, there were few obstacles on that evening, and as his hon. Friend's Local Management of the Metropolis Bill was disposed of in a short time, the Government would be prepared to give any explanation that might be required. He trusted, therefore, that the Committee would at once proceed with the Votes on the paper.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the present Government had punctually and exactly fulfilled the engagements of the late Chancellor of the Exchequer. He undertook to bring the revenue service under the cognisance of the House, and not that that expenditure should be paid into the Exchequer before any Vote should be taken in the House. It had been already stated that it was not his intention to place the expenditure of managing the land revenue of the Crown upon the Estimates, and that intention also had been adhered to. With regard to the parks, they had been originally the property of the Crown, but had been gratuitously granted by the Crown to the public for their benefit and pleasure. Windsor Park was in the occupancy of the Crown itself, and so was put upon the expenses of the land revenue. The hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams), had, apparently in his eye, an Act which transferred certain charges upon the Consolidated Fund, and which therefore were paid by the Exchequer without any annual Vote of that House. They were included, every one, in the Miscellaneous Estimates, which had been and would be laid on the table.
 MR. LLOYD DAVIES  said, he begged to ask whether the 3 per cent. commission was charged upon the decorations of the interior as well as upon the building generally?
 MR. PERCY  said, he noticed that there was in these Estimates a sum of 6,000 l.
 MR. PIGOTT  said, considerable dissatisfaction already prevailed on this matter, and it would be increased if it went forth as it now stood, without some explanation having been given, without which he considered the House ought not to have this expenditure hanging over it year after year.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that as it was necessary the general Estimates should be voted before the commencement of the financial year, it had been the common practice to commence the Miscellaneous Estimates after the Easter recess. Full notice had been given by the Government of their intention
 1497
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he considered that no Act contained so much of injustice and inconvenience as the Metropolitan Buildings Act. Instead of tending to secure the safety of houses, it often tended to endanger them, while, instead of tending to good drainage, it tended to just the contrary. There were two official referees under the Act, one a lawyer, the other an architect; but they so little agreed with each other that they would not sit in the same room together. Now, before they passed this Vote, they ought to have some pledge that a Bill would be brought in to remedy this disgraceful state of things.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he must appeal to the right hon. Baronet not to proceed with the second reading of the Bill in so thin a House, or, at all events, to refer the Bill, if read a second time, to a Select Committee. The inhabitants of Southwark, in a recent meeting, had expressed their opinion that the borough ought rather to be restored to its ancient influential position in the metropolis than cut up into a number of small districts. They thought that there ought to be two central bodies to manage the sewerage of London—one for the north and the other for the south of the river. At present the inhabitants of Southwark had some semblance of municipal institutions, and they had certainly no desire to part with their high bailiff. It was true the Bill would put an end to a number of self-elected coteries; but if Hobhouse's Act were adopted it would destroy all the open vestries, which were the safeguard of the country, so far as public discussion was concerned.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he did not think the Committee had any right to complain of the course pursued by the Government. He believed the Estimates had been for some time in the hands of Members, and there had certainly been an understanding before the recess that the Miscellaneous Estimates should be brought forward on the reassembling of the House. He thought it of great importance and advantage that the Estimates should always be fully in the hands of Members, but he must protest against the opinion expressed by the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams) that no business of importance should be brought forward on the first night of the meeting of the House after a recess. He (Mr. Disraeli) considered that the first night after a recess was exactly the occasion when, with renewed energies, they ought to give their consideration to any important business. If the principle were once admitted that the House met on the first night after a holiday merely as a matter of course, they virtually prolonged the holiday, and introduced a lax mode of carrying on business, which, if it were once adopted, would be found to work most unsatisfactorily. The late recess had exceeded the usual limits, yet the hon. Member for Lambeth complained, on the first night of the reassembling of Parliament, and when apparently they had scarcely sufficient business before them, that they should be asked to consider the Estimates. He fully agreed with that hon. Gentleman that it was of the utmost importance that the Estimates should be placed in the hands of hon. Members at such a period as to afford full time for their consideration, but he (Mr. Disraeli) was not aware that an opportunity had not been afforded of giving these Estimates fair consideration. He had received the Miscellaneous Estimates some days ago, and due notice had been given before the recess that those Estimates would be considered on the day that the House reassembled.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, what he and the Irish Members wanted to know was, whether any prospect existed of such a reduction in the poor law expenditure for Ireland as would make that expenditure conformable to the expenditure in England. The matter afforded a fair subject for inquiry. He understood that the number of persons employed in Ireland in the administration of the poor law was greater than the number of persons employed in England, while the whole amount of the poor law funds for Ireland did not amount to one-seventh of the aggregate amount for England. No assurance had as yet been given that a suitable reduction in the Irish expenditure would occur, and it was, therefore, desirable to know whether any considerable reduction was in contemplation which would be likely to bring the two expenditures to an equality.
 MR. DISRAELI : Why not have the discussion now?
 MR. DISRAELI : Cannot you take a smaller sum?
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he thought it would be much better to postpone the Vote until it could be introduced by a statement from the Minister.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the hon. Gentleman's reply could hardly be considered satisfactory to the hon. Member who had just put the question. What the hon. Gentleman wanted to know, and what Irish Members also desired to know, was, whether steps had been taken to reduce the expenditure connected with the administration of the poor law in Ireland. He did not understand that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Wilson) had given a satisfactory answer to the question.
 MR. BUTLER  said, that the Bill had been attentively considered by his constituents, and it was found that some of its clauses would not work well for the Tower Hamlets. He thought, however, that when some alterations were made in the Bill, which might be done in Committee, it might be passed, and he was willing to allow the second reading to be taken.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD,  in reply, said, he must refer the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Captain Scobell) to the report of Captain Skinner and Mr. Rendell on the subject. The object of bringing the Estimate forward was to obtain the sanction of Parliament for the expenditure, the proposal being to enlarge Holyhead Harbour, and afford greater security than hitherto, a measure which was justified by the large increase in the number of vessels that resorted to it. He believed there had been some alteration in the original plans.
 MR. FRENCH  said, he considered that the explanation given by the hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Treasury, with respect to the Estimates brought forward at midnight, was anything but satisfactory. He also wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman the Commissioner of Works, whether he had taken any measures to protect the magnificent trees in the park, at Hampton Court, from being injured or destroyed?
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he also agreed that it would be quite improper to proceed with the Committee on that the first night of their meeting after the recess. For his part, he believed it would be attended with a great saving of time and expense, if, at the commencement of every Session, a Standing Committee were appointed to consider these Estimates previous to their coming before the House. He certainly would support the Motion for reporting progress.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he wished to call attention to a subject which had cre-
 1479
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he wished to call attention to the large expenditure required for the maintenance of the establishment in Ireland as compared with that in England. Last year the cost in Ireland was 40,794 l., l.,
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, the late Secretary for Ireland promised last year that a Select Committee should be appointed to inquire into the whole system of the Poor Laws in Ireland, and he hoped to have a renewal of that promise from the present Secretary.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, the Bill in question contained a clause against which he had already protested, as it contemplated the giving away of 160 places of 500 l.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he wished to know whether the recommendations in the Report of the Commissioners had been carried out with respect to public works as well as with respect to the poor law.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he thought that the Committee was under an obligation to the right hon. baronet for having ascertained what the ultimate cost of the buildings would be, but he hoped that the Treasury would not permit one single shilling to be expended before the plans of the new buildings proposed had been laid before the House.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he thought that the wooden railing in Rotten Row should give place to a handsome iron one.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he wished English Members to be aware of the difference of expenditure on account of the Poor Laws in England and Ireland. The expenditure was at the rate of in England and 1⅞d. in England and 9¾. in Ireland. He could see no valid reason why this discrepancy should exist.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he hoped that the First Commissioner of the Board of Works would keep Sir Charles Barry in subjection. The present building was, to his mind, a monument of extravagance.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he wished to inquire the depth of water at neap tides in the harbour of refuge and the roadstead of Holyhead; and whether the works recommended by the Admiralty had been sanctioned by Parliament?
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, that a commission of 3 per cent. upon the expenditure vould produce a sum of 54,000 l.,
 MR. BAILLIE  said, he also begged to ask whether the original plans had not been altered, so as to reduce the area of the breakwater?
 MR. BAILLIE  said, he wished to enquire what was to be done with the Courts of Law? Was it intended that they should be replaced? It was impossible that they could remain in their present state, and he should like to know if the cost of their alteration or replacement was
 1491
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he should be very sorry if the Bill were referred to a Select Committee. The practical result of such a course would be, that the House would hear no more of it that Session, and they would be without any legislation for the improvement of the metropolis. It was not likely that this Session would be productive of many measures of improvement and amelioration; but he trusted they should have to boast that they had passed such a Bill as the present very judicious measure for the metropolis; and if they did so, they would effect a public object of no ordinary magnitude and value. It had been asked by the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe) whether it was the intention of the Government to propose any measure for the reform of the City Corporation during the present Session. He thought it most desirable, if such a Bill were to be proposed, that it should be introduced, and be before the House during the discussion of the Bill for the local Government of the metro-
 1473
 MR. WILSON  said, he hoped his hon. Friend would withdraw his Amendment, for full and due notice had been given before the recess of the intention of the Government to proceed with these Estimates on that evening. His hon. Friend was of opinion that the proper course would be to refer these Estimates to a Select Committee, but that would be a most inconvenient proceeding, and, if resorted to at all, ought to be adopted at a very early period of the Session, when a Committee would have full time for inquiring into the subject. If a Committee were now appointed to inquire into these Estimates they could not possibly report until the close of the Session. He must remind his hon. Friend that, in consequence of the inquiries that had been made on the subject of the Estimates within the last few years, many charges which used to fall upon the Consolidated Fund were now voted in the Estimates. The Fees of Courts and other public establishments were now paid directly into the Exchequer, and the expenses of those establishments were defrayed by annual Votes, in order that they might come under the revision of Parliament. The consequent increase of the Estimates had been enormous, and he believed the increase in this particular department of the Estimates for the present year was not less than 1,000,000 l.,
 MR. WILSON  said, he quite agreed with the right hon. Baronet that it would be a great improvement if the same practice were adopted with regard to the Civil Service Estimates as prevailed in reference to the Army and Navy Estimates—that of closing the accounts each year, and not allowing balances to hang over from one year to another. That, however, would be impossible until an entire change took place in the principle on which these Civil Service Estimates were voted. In the first place, it would be necessary that all these Estimates should be voted by the 31st of March, and if Parliament were to continue to meet at the commencement of February, as usual, and there were a press of business, that could scarcely be done. With regard to these accounts, it must be remembered that they consisted, in a great measure, of the accounts of masons and other artificers employed by the Board of Works, which the Commissioners of Audit had neither the means nor the ability to audit. It was, therefore, more convenient that they should first be audited by professional men—servants of the board, who understood such accounts—and that the Commissioners of Audit having received
 1482
 MR. WILSON  said, he thought he could answer the hon. Member. The matter was under consideration last year, and in connection with the measure then brought forward the land revenues of the Crown
 1487
 MR. WILSON  replied that the commission was charged upon the entire outlay, including decorations, and that the Government were prepared to resist any further claims beyond the 3 per cent., though they would of course replace any private expense incurred by Sir Charles Barry with regard to measurement.
 MR. WILSON  said, the Committee would probably be aware that Sir Charles Barry's commission had been a matter of serious dispute between that gentleman and successive Boards of the Treasury, and until within the last twelve months his claims had not even been brought into the shape of an account. The original agreement with Sir Charles Barry was made by Lord Besborough, who was the First Commissioner of Works when the palace was commenced, and by it the architect was to receive a sum of 25,000 l. l. 1492
 MR. WILSON  said, every effort was being made to reduce the expenditure connected with the administration of the Poor Laws in Ireland. Last year the amount asked for was reduced from 48,000 l. l., l., l.
 MR. WILSON  said, that the Commission intrusted to Messrs. Bromley and Stephenson had not cost the country a single shilling beyond the travelling expenses of those gentlemen, who were public servants of great eminence. Their Reports with regard to the Board of Works, made about two years ago, had been entirely carried out. Their Report with respect to the Poor Law Board, however, had not been acted upon; for that Report was made upon the assumption that the then existing establishment would be maintained, whereas on the discussion of the Estimates in Parliament a very large reduction was made in those establishments. The Report, therefore, which was made upon a very different establishment, could not now be carried out, but so far as it applied to the portion of the establishment that was maintained it would be acted upon.
 MR. WILSON  said, it would be seen that the Irish expenditure had been reduced this year by a sum of 6,200 l. l. 1495
 MR. WILSON  said, he proposed to take the next Vote out of its usual course. It was the Education Vote, but if the Committee objected to pass the Vote without discussion, perhaps they would allow him to take a sum on account.
 MR. WILSON  said, he did not think it would be convenient to take the discussion now. The Vote was 381,000 l.; l.
 MR. WILSON : Yes, 100,000 l.
 MR. WILSON  said, it was true there were eighty-nine persons employed in Ireland in reference to the poor law, and but sixty-six in England. But hon. Members must be aware that the reason of this difference was that more work was done by the central body in Ireland than was the case in England, where the greater portion of labour was done by local authorities. There was a Bill in progress for altering the poor law of Ireland, with the view of extending local authority and taking away the powers of the central body; and it would be seen that every step in this direction would have the effect of reducing the expenditure, and of course of bringing the expenditure of both countries to a comparative equality.
 MR. WILSON  said, the practice which had existed for many years had been followed in this case—the Estimates had been printed in the earlier days of the recess, and had been delivered to Members several days before the reassembling of Parliament.
 MR. BRADY  said, he believed that the measure which had been introduced to the House would act beneficially in a sanitary point of view for the metropolis. He hoped the hon. Member for Southwark (Mr. A. Pellatt) would not press his objection, for he trusted that the Bill would not be delayed. Nothing could be worse than the state of the south portion of the metropolis.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he had no wish to limit the magnificence or convenience of the royal palaces, but if they went back to the time of the building of Versailles (Louis XIV.), they would find that three times as much had been spent in this country as in France, and the whole history of jobbing and recklessness could not equal what might be found in connection with the royal palaces.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he thought that, at a period when there was a deficiency in the revenue, and an increased expenditure, it was not decent in the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to propose any Estimates until he stated his budget to the House. For his own part, he had seen so much carelessness and apathy displayed in voting away large sums of the public money in that House, that if his hon.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, for his part, he objected to voting Estimates while they were in ignorance of the intentions of the Government with regard to the Ways and Means.
 MR. AYSHFORD WISE  said, he wished to call the attention of the Committee to the item of furniture for the public offices. In five years the expense of furniture had amounted to 107,634 l. 1480
 MR. SPOONER  said, he fully concurred in the representation of the hon. Member
 1478
 MR. SPOONER  said, he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that the House ought to proceed to business on the first night of their reassembling instead of prolonging the holidays; but what he complained of was that the Miscellaneous Estimates had not been placed in the hands of hon. Members at an earlier period.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he thought the thinness of the House was easily accounted for. It was not every day that the Emperor and Empress of the French did us the honour to pay us a visit, and he only wished that the metropolis, both as regarded its buildings, its paving, and its drainage, was in a fitter state to receive those distinguished personages. At the same time he thought that if they had had an Act like this Bill in operation, they would have been able to do much. The hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams) had expressed an opinion that it would be well to amalgamate the City of London with the rest of the metropolis; and, perhaps, it might be right to ask when they were to have the promised Corporation Reform Bill? Other corporations had been reformed long ago, and he wondered whether they would be able to get through Temple Bar this year? With respect to the Bill now before them, it appeared to contain provisions of a very despotic and arbitrary kind. The only thing that would make them tolerable was, that the powers proposed to be given would be administered upon the representative principle. In some of the parishes—St. Giles's and St. George's, Hanover Square, for instance—they would not give a farthing for the Bill, unless it adopted Hobhouse's Act. On the other hand, if they went a
 1472 l., l., l.
 MR. W. EWART  said, there was a house in Hyde Park belonging either to the Ranger or Deputy Ranger, with extensive grounds attached. He wished to know whether those grounds could not be thrown open to the public?
 MR. W. EWART  said, he thought there should be a greater number of seats provided in the Parks. He also objected to the carrying away of quantities of gravel for the purpose of making roads, and then filling up the spaces left with filthy street sweepings, so as to create a kind of artificial swamp.
 MR. MACKINNON  said, he wished to know whether the right hon. Baronet (Sir B. Hall) proposed to make any alteration with respect to Clause 103. He did not concur in the principle of vesting the whole power in vestries. There were also certain other clauses in the Bill which had reference to the power of raising money which required careful consideration.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he thought there could be no question that great credit was due to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Marylebone, for the labour he had bestowed upon the Bill, or that some measure of a similar character, though not precisely like that before the House, was desired by the whole of the inhabitants of the metropolis. For his own part, he considered that what was wanted was a Bill by which the existing Parliamentary boroughs, including Green-
 1470 l. l. l. l 1471
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he was of opinion that the property of the Crown, during the assignment of it in consideration of the Civil List, was as much the property of the public during the assignment as any property was, and ought to be dealt with as such. 131,000 l. l. l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that, after the late division, he would not again divide the Committee; but he thought some items called for remark. He wished, for instance, to know whether Windsor Park cost any money to the public last year. There was no item for it in this year's or last year's Estimate, though, in the accounts of Woods and Forests, it would seem to have cost 18,000 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he would not put the Committee to the trouble of dividing, were it not a case of absolute necessity. What he desired was, that the Miscellaneous Estimates should be postponed in order that members might have an opportunity of considering them, and he also thought that the Government should supply the House with the materials requisite for instituting a comparison between the Votes for the present year and those for the past three years. They had already voted upwards of 40,000,000 l. l., l. l. l. l.; l. l. l., l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that from the year ending March, 1854, there was a receipt from Crown lands of 387,000 l., l.,
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he rose to protest against these Estimates being proceeded with in such a thin House, and without due notice having been given that they were to come on that night. He felt so strongly on the subject that he should move that the Chairman report progress. Those Estimates had gone on increasing year after year to a most enormous extent. Under the Tory Administration of the Duke of Wellington they only amounted to 1,900.000 l., l. l. l. l. l. 1477
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the Audit Board at present acted under the authority of several Acts of Parliament. Those Acts were of the most conflicting nature, and the heads of departments were anxious that they should be consolidated, so that they might know how to perform their duties. He wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he had any objection to bring in a Bill for the consolidation of the Acts?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he only wanted to know how it was that Windsor Park was not included in the Vote. 18,000 l. 1488 l
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to know if any agreement existed as to the amount of remuneration which was to be paid to Sir Charles Barry? He thought that, if the suggestions of that Gentleman were followed, the total expense of the buildings would far exceed 2,500,000 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he must complain that the Civil Service Estimates were submitted to the House in driblets, instead of being presented in a complete form, and he must also reiterate his objection to proceeding with the Estimates on the first day of meeting after the recess.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that when he introduced this Bill, a mouth ago, he had stated that he was quite aware of the magnitude of the subject, and of the difficulties by which it was surrounded. But he was happy to find, from the present discussion, that the objections raised to the measure referred only to its details, and that its general principle had been approved by his Colleagues in the representation of the metropolis. Some hon. Members had been good enough to express their great approval of the manner in which he had framed and conducted the Bill. He had certainly taken much pains with the measure, which was aided materially by the very able report made by the Com-
 1474 1475 l. 1476
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL : I propose to take the Committee on this day fortnight.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, he thought that the right hon. baronet had promised to lay before the House the plans of Sir Charles Barry with regard to the new buildings which he proposed to erect.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, that last year a promise had been given by the right hon. Baronet the Chief Commissioner of Works that a plan of the entire building which it was proposed to erect should be submitted to Parliament, and it was most important that that promise should be adhered to. From the nature of the new bridge which was to be constructed, it was evident that the houses at the north side of the Palace-yard would have to be purchased, and he presumed that it was proposed to erect some new buildings on that side, and if so the House ought to be informed what the nature of those buildings was. He perceived also an item for the payment of a sum of money to Mr. Cope, and he wished to know if he was the same gentleman who bad painted the fresco of "the First Investiture of the Garter" in the House of Lords? because, if he were the same, that fresco appeared to him and also to others to be, in its drawing, disgraceful to the present state of art in this country, and he should be inclined to oppose any further grant for decoration to the same artist.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he begged to thank the right hon. Gentleman for the Bill, which he thought, with some few alterations, would be a most useful measure.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : It is, Sir, the intention of Her Majesty's Government to propose a Bill to Parliament during the present Session, for the reform of the corporation of the City of London. The public and the Government are, I am sure, deeply indebted to my right hon. Friend (Mr. Labouchere) and his colleagues, for the care and attention which they bestowed last year upon this matter, as Members of the Commission of inquiry. A Bill founded on their recommendation has been prepared; but it has been thought better that the Bill of my right hon. Friend (Sir B. Hall) should take precedence of it. If the House agrees to this Bill, we hope at an early period to have an opportunity of introducing the Bill for the reform of the corporation of the City of London.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  moved that the hon. Henry Fitzroy take the Chair in place of the hon. Edward Pleydell Bouverie, who has accepted the office of Vice President of the Board of Trade.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, a Vote on account was required for the sake of carrying out pressing arrangements. A statement would be made before the balance was moved.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he had, on former occasions, urged the right hon. Gentleman to restore the Diana fountain at the beautiful piece of water in Bushy Park; he hoped it had not escaped his attention.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he doubted whether the present was a fitting opportunity for raising questions respecting the expenditure of the Woods and Forests. He admitted that the subject was a very important one, but he thought that within the last few years there had been a great improvement in the management of these accounts by the Woods and Forests. He (Sir H. Willoughby) claimed the right of discussing every item in the Votes for the management of the Crown property which came before the House of Commons; and he hoped his hon. Friend (Mr. W. Williams) would not be daunted by the division on his Motion from inquiry into the subject if he saw fit.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to know what were the intentions of the Government. Did they mean to give the Audit Office the go-by? There wore certainly difficulties in the way, but they should have been stated when the Audit Commissioners had appealed to the Treasury. He should like to hear the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer upon that point. No branch of the public service required the audit more than the Woods and Forests.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he was quite aware that great difficulties existed, but on the whole believed the answer of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to be very satisfactory.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished for some information as to the total
 1489 l., l. l. l.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, a proposition ought to have been made to Sir Charles Barry to this effect, that if he did not choose to afford his services on certain terms, they would be dispensed with.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he wished to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Commissioner of Works to the charge of 464 l.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, the hon. Baronet had evidently misunderstood him. The horses he alluded to were regularly thorough-bred, and sold for racing purposes. The sum realised in that way was, he believed, very considerable.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he
 1484
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he was informed that no injury had been done to those trees; and if any danger arose, he would take measures to protect them.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, it had not; and a Vote for the restoration of the fountain would be found in the present Estimate.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he had no control over the matter, but he would make inquiries.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  was understood to say that he had nothing to do with any other parks and pleasure-grounds than those mentioned in the Vote, and therefore was unable to give the information desired.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he had nothing whatever to do with the stud, that the money required was for the repair of certain buildings at Hampton Court, and he really knew nothing of the produce of these horses alluded to by his hon. Friend.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that in reference to the hon. Member's remarks relating to furniture, at the commencement of every financial year the Board of Works directed their officers to examine the different offices, and supply any deficiency in the ordinary amount of furniture. For this purpose there was an excess of 6,000 l. l.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, it was the intention of the Govornment to carry on the street in a straight line through the Gun Tavern. They could not, however, legally obtain possession of the building till next year. In the meantime as much of the road as could be proceeded with had been formed, so as to lose as little time as possible.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he was most anxious to give every explanation in his power with regard to the Vote. With respect to the palaces entirely in the occupation of Her Majesty, those partly in her occupation, and those not in her occupation, there was a diminution of expenditure in the Estimates of the present year as compared with last year. There was a diminution of 1,312 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that Government was prepared to resist any further charge beyond the 3 per cent, which was the usual amount paid to architects for public works, including decorations and other similar matters.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that with respect to the ventilation of the House, the sum of 6,000 l. 1493
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that it was quite true that last year he had made a promise to the House that he would endeavour to obtain a statement from Sir Charles Barry of the works which he wished to execute, and of their probable cost; and he had obtained a full report on that subject. On the 31st of March, 1854, Sir Charles Barry estimated that to complete the works which had been already sanctioned would require a sum of 280,000 l. l. l. l., 1490 l. l., l., l., l. l. l.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that a greater number of seats should be provided, and that the taking away of the gravel should be discontinued.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that a Vote would be proposed this year for completing the iron railing which had been already begun in Rotten Row.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that Sir Charles Barry did propose to remove the Courts of Law, but that removal was not included in the works already sanctioned by the House, and this estimate of 650,000 l.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he had already obtained leave to bring in a Bill to alter and amend the Metropolitan Buildings Act; and in that Bill he proposed to deal with the question of referees.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he wished to ask if, in addition to decorations, the commission was charged upon repairs, because as alterations and repairs appeared never to be finished, the percentage upon them would furnish Sir Charles Barry with a perpetual annuity.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he wished to ask the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary fur war whether any decision had been come to in regard to the deductions of the income tax from the amount awarded as gratuity for wounds to those gallant officers who have returned home mutilated from the Crimea?
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, he should not have risen on the present occasion, had it not been for the unwarranted personal attack which had been made upon him by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He had been charged with being a man of firmness and resolution. These were qualities he hoped he had displayed throughout his life, and had employed them in taking care of the lives of the seamen in Her Majesty's service, and of the credit of the navy. It had been stated that assistant surgeons were unwilling to come forward, and one of the reasons which had been assigned for their unwillingness was, that the necessary qualification was lower than that which was required in the army. The fact was that a higher qualification than that of the army had been demanded, but it was thought right that the standard
 1521
 COLONEL NORTH  said, it was impossible to give too much credit to the medical officers of the army for the kindness and ability with which they discharged their duties. What he wished to call the attention of the house particularly to was, as to the impossibility of the Committee up stairs investigating in a satisfactory manner the working of the general and regimental hospitals in the Crimea. There was one point of great importance connected with this subject. From the deductions which were made from the pay of soldiers confined in hospital for the comforts supplied them, it was at present almost impossible that he could leave it otherwise than in debt. He (Colonel North) also
 1522 s. d.
 MR. ELLICE  said, he quite agreed with the hon. and gallant Member who had introduced the Motion, that nothing could be more unsatisfactory than the state of the army medical department. The Committee upstairs was doing its best to unravel much of the confusion in which this establishment was at present involved, with a view of enabling the Government and that House to make such reforms as were essentially necessary for the efficiency of the service and the credit of the country, and he would leave it therefore to the discretion of the House whether a second Committee should be appointed to sit at the same time on the same subject. The hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Brady) had mixed up the questions of the military and naval establishments, but, so far as the medical establishment of the navy had come before the Committee upstairs, he was bound to say that it afforded a very agreeable contrast as regarded results to the medical service of the army in the East. In the naval hospital in the East there did not appear to have been any want of medical appliances or comforts or of medical assistance, and the naval detachment before Sebastopol appeared to have suffered a very trifling loss in comparison
 1523 l. l. l. 1524
 COLONEL BOLDERO,  in reply, said, that he had had the honour of a seat in the House of Commons for many years, and that he never remembered a Motion to have been received with so much favour as that which he had had the honour of submitting that evening. It had been supported by both sides of the House, and even Members of the Government had made use of arguments in its favour. The Sebastopol Committee had concluded their evidence upon the medical part of the case, and he saw no reason why the inquiry which he proposed should be put off until their labours were completed, which might not be until the close of the Session. The present, therefore, was the best time for inquiry, and under the circumstances he could not consent to withdraw his Motion.
 COLONEL BOLDERO  said, that in moving for a Select Committee to inquire into the state of the medical departments in each of the two services, he felt glad that he had not had a previous opportunity of bringing forward the subject, because the evidence already taken before the Sebastopol Committee had furnished two subjects worthy of remark. It appeared from that evidence that the speeches which had been made in that House by hon. Members who had been eye-witnesses of the state of affairs in the East, and also the graphic, interesting, and intelligent statements of the private correspondents of the London journals, had, so far from being exaggerated, fallen below the actual state of the case. The cause of that state of things and of many of the calamities which had occurred was the deficient state of the medical department, and last year a Cabinet Minister had had the honesty to acknowledge the existence of that deficiency, which he attributed to having commenced a war upon a peace establishment and without a medical staff. The war was commenced by sending a small detachment of 10,000 men to Malta, and the medical department was called upon to furnish the medical assistance requisite for that force, and that task they performed, he believed, without any complaint being made, but when that force was augmented in the first instance to 25,000 men, it was found that, instead of the Government of this country having acted in a manner similar to the Emperor of Russia, and made every preparation for war, the means provided by them in every department were inadequate to meet the emergency, and more especially so in the medical department. When it became necessary to establish a hospital at Scutari, deficiencies were found to exist in every branch of the medical department. There was a deficiency of medical men, of medical stores, of means of transport, of apothecaries, of ambulances, of orderly sergeants — in short of everything that was required. He did not wish the House to be led into a belief that the medical men did not perform their duty, for, on the contrary, there was abundant testi-
 1505 Prince 1506 l. l. l. l. s. s. 1507 The Times 1508
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to put further restrictions upon Sunday trading in the metropolis. He said the growing evils of Sunday trading had frequently occupied the attention of both sides of the House, and the inquiries that had been voted always resulted in a Report that the present state of the law was insufficient, and that further legislation was necessary. Therefore he did not expect that his Motion would meet with much opposition. It might be said that it was inexpedient at the present moment to renew au effort that had already been made several times without success, but his reply to that was, that the subject had never been brought under the consideration of the present Parliament. A former measure, introduced by the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Wilkinson), had failed, but then the difficulties in the way of getting a Member's Bill through the House were almost insurmountable. He himself once proposed a small Bill, of three clauses in length, and it took him three Sessions to get it passed. The hon. Member for Lambeth also had had his Bill referred to a Select Committee, who so altered it as to render it, in the opinion of those who proposed it, entirely inoperative. He hoped he should have better luck. He had no intention of referring his Bill to a Select Committee, and the three hon. Gentlemen who were the strongest opponents of the Bill of the hon. Member for Lambeth had ceased to be Members of the House. He should go into the details of his Bill when it came to a second reading.
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to provide for the education of the children of poor persons in the receipt of out-door relief. His Bill was but a continuance of a system already in force, and might be considered as but supplementary to what had been already done. There were three Bills on the subject of education already before the House, but the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies and others had advised him to persevere. If the Bills at present before the House should receive their sanction, his Bill would be swallowed up and included in them. The object of his Bill was to enable the guardians of the poor to grant relief to the poor persons receiving relief out of the workhouses to enable them to provide education for their children, such education not being proposed to be made a condition of relief; the guardians not to compel attendance at any school to which the parents should object; the cost of this relief to be charged to the same accounts as other charges for the relief of paupers. He should have been glad to have introduced a clause charging a part of the expense to the Consolidated Fund, but the state of the Chancellor of the Exchequer's funds at the present time forbade him to think of any such proposal.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he was dissatisfied that so large a sum should be left in the care and management, which were so generally complained of, of the governmental departments. He objected to the principle of Government interfering with education at all. Education Votes were no more than moral poison to prevent the healthy action of the public spirit of the country. The voluntary system had done an enormous amount of good in respect of education. It was not the voluntary system that had failed in the country; it was the compulsory system that had done the mischief. Since the repeal of the Test Act there had been shown an amount of energy in the education of the people among the partisans of the voluntary system such as had not been surpassed in any part of the world at any time. Pouring out upon education money derived from the taxes of the country was giving a premium for the discontinuance of that mighty energy which had been shown during the last few years. During the last twenty-three years there had been at work that mighty influence which had attained the result of giving instruction to one in every eight, a result which the highest authorities some time ago declared would be highly satisfactory if it could be attained. One in seven of the population of the country were also in the course of moral and religious instruction in Sunday and night schools, by 318,000 ladies and gentlemen, a result which never could have been got from Government. He begged to move that the Vote of 100,000 l.
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he was perfectly at a loss to understand either the principle or the policy of the Government in opposing this inquiry, when the public had such strong grounds for believing that all the Government departments were badly managed. It appeared to be only a question of expense; but why should there not be two Committees sitting? The first Committee was a Committee to do everything; the other would be a Committee to do only one thing. He could not help thinking that the Government were showing a great want of discretion in resisting a demand of this sort merely on the ground of expense, when so much had recently occurred to show the absolute necessity of such an inquiry.
 MR. BRADY  said, he thought that, after the able and convincing arguments of the mover and seconder of the Motion, the House must be persuaded of the necessity for speedily settling this important question. Indeed, the admissions just made by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Peel) in resisting the Motion, were sufficient of themselves to establish that proposition. At the present moment the public mind was excited, and called loudly for inquiry into the management of all our departments. It was the constitutional right and duty of that House, when a general impression prevailed that great abuses had existed in a department of the State, to have the matter fairly investigated; and this question was not to be restricted to such narrow grounds as the mere advantage or disadvantage of the surgeons of the army and navy. Hitherto this question of the medical department had been considered as if there were only two parties who had anything to say on it—namely, the public medical officers on the one hand, and the Horse Guards and the Admiralty on the other; but he trusted the time was now come when that House would assert its rights, and would institute an inquiry with a view of making the medical institutions connected with the public service
 1519 1520 "At this moment there is no deficiency in this branch of the service. We have no complaint to make of the want of a sufficient number of assistant surgeons in the navy; and, we have every reason to be satisfied with the competency and the abilities of the Gentlemen selected for the office. I can assure my hon. and gallant Friend that if I had the slightest apprehension that the crews of Her Majesty's ships were exposed to the treatment of ignorant and empirical practitioners, there is no effort that I would not make to remedy so great an evil." [3  Hansard,
 MR. MONTAGU CHAMBERS  said, he could not help remembering that the public interests had perished through delay and procrastination, and now the Government were about to procrastinate again. He was prepared to vote for this Motion. It was said that there were no complaints from the medical officers of the navy, and the hon. and gallant Member (Admiral Berkeley) told the House that the Admiralty were able to get as many properly qualified medical men as they wanted. But in private society it was well known that the medical officers of the navy were constantly complaining, while the most distinguished members of the medical profession on shore were crying out against the treatment of medical men in the navy. Let the House reflect upon the situation of the Baltic fleet, and the probable number of wounded men if that fleet went into action, and then let them inquire why the Admiralty were sending out pupils to act as surgeons? Now was the time to act, before the mischief occurred. He understood that 100 young men now occupied a subordinate position as dressers in the Baltic fleet, who were simply pupils, and who were consequently quite ignorant of their
 1525
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, in reference to what had fallen from the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Colonel Boldero) as to the motives which induced him to bring forward the present Motion, no one could doubt that his only object was to promote the advantage of the service, and to make the military branch of the medical service such as it ought to be, so that the medical men of this country might enter into it with the feeling that it offered prizes and prospects as promising as any that could be contemplated in private practice, or by attendance in the large civil hospitals of this country. He (Mr. Peel) should confine his observations to that portion of the Motion which related to the army, leaving his hon. and gallant Friend near him (Admiral Berkeley) to deal with the naval part of the question. He saw no reason whatever why the medical department of the army should not have advantages and prizes such as would draw into it the ablest of the young medical men of the country, and he quite agreed with his hon. and gallant Friend that the merit of the members of the profession in this country entitled them to the kindest and most liberal treatment from the Government. 1514 1515 1516 1517 1518
 MR. F. PEEL  in reply said, that, in the first instance, the income tax had been
 1503
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I believe that the noble Lord will leave Vienna in the
 1504
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he presumed that the object which the right hon. Baronet had in asking the question was in accordance with the opinion which he had expressed on a previous occasion—that the duties which were now performed by the Committee of Council on Education should be transferred to a responsible Minister; that that department of the Government should be represented by a Minister sitting in the House of Lords, and if not in the House of Lords, by a subordinate Minister sitting in that House. He had no doubt that, if such an office was created, the duties would be sufficiently grave and onerous for such a responsible Minister. There were besides education other matters connected with it, such as those appertaining to the department of art and science now under the Board of Trade, which might be included among the duties of such an office. At the time when the Committee of Council on Education was established it was considered better to constitute it as at present, but he was not prepared to affirm that the time was not come when under the altered circumstances a better arrangement might not be made. Without, therefore, expressing a final opinion on the subject, he might say that the question engaged the attention of the Government, but he was not prepared to promise that in the present Session of Parliament any alteration would be proposed.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Muntz) had assumed that the Government opposed any inquiry into the state of the medical departments of the army and navy. But was that a proper explanation of the course taken by the Government? His hon. Friend (Mr. Peel) had stated the reasons which led the Government to the conclusion that it was inexpedient that the Committee now proposed to be appointed should sit while an inquiry was already going on upstairs embracing this among other subjects of inquiry. His hon. Friend had also stated that it was admitted abuses existed, and that the proposal for inquiry by a separate Committee would meet with the willing concurrence of the Government if the House thought it desirable, after the inquiry now going on had been concluded and the Committee had made their Report. A great portion of the time and attention of the Committee now sitting upon the state of the army before Sebastopol, had been devoted to the medical department of the army, and the more useful and proper course, he considered, would be to wait until this subject had been fully inquired into by them. The only Member of the Committee who had addressed the House (Mr. Ellice) had taken this view, and had also stated that very shortly the Report of that Committee would be laid before the House. The Government were anxious that these departments should be placed in an efficient state. Motives of humanity and policy alike guided them in this desire, and the Government would be very thankful for any assistance which a Committee of that House could give them in improving the efficiency of these departments. But the Government thought there ought to be some regularity in the proceedings of the House, and that the House should wait and see what one Committee recommended before they appointed another. If eventually the House should think it desirable to refer this subject to a separate Committee, it would be an advantage to that Committee to have the evidence before them now being taken by the present Committee. The question affecting the naval branch of the profession was a mere ques-
 1526
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that had the hon. Gentleman been in his place the preceding evening he would have understood that it was agreed to defer the discussion on the Education Vote till that Vote was formally brought before the House. The present was only a Vote on account to defray existing claims of a pressing nature.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, that if the Motion had been limited to the army he might have been content to wait for the Report of the Sebastopol Committee, but after the speech of the hon. Member for Leitrim (Mr. Brady), as to the treatment of medical men in the navy, he would not refuse to give his vote in favour of this inquiry? He regretted, however, that the hon. Gentleman had thought it necessary to speak with a tone of asperity respecting the conduct of the hon. and gallant Member for Gloucester (Admiral Berkeley), who, it would be found, had made great exertions with regard to the equipment of the navy.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he would now beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman, if he could inform the House when the Secretary of State for the Colonial Department would return to this country?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in the absence of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce any measure during the present Session for altering the constitution of the Committee of Council on Education, so as to ensure a direct representation of that department in the House of Commons?
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he was anxious to give every support in his power to a Bill for the prevention of unnecessary Sunday trading in the metropolis, but he should have liked to have heard a little explanation about it on the present occasion.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE,  in seconding the Motion, said he had had some experience of medical practice connected with the military service in former years, and he much lamented to see that latterly it had greatly deteriorated. If a Committee were appointed the origin of this deterioration might be traced to the right causes, and he hoped he should not be told by the hon. Gentleman who represented the War Department in that House that the Committee now sitting to inquire into the conduct of the war in the Crimea embraced in their inquiry this branch of the subject. No doubt they did, incidentally; but still he thought that a general Committee appointed to consider how the war had been carried on would not go so fully into the causes of the evils described by his hon. and gallant Friend (Colonel Boldero) as a special Committee appointed solely to inquire into the state of the medical departments of the army and navy. He thought the origin of the evils of which his hon. and gallant Friend complained might be traced to the system which had been pursued of late years. In former years there existed an Army Medical Board, but that board had been abolished in order to save the public money, though assuredly not for the advantage of the public service. The duties of the Army Medical Board had since devolved upon one individual, and in asking for a Committee it behoved his hon. and gallant Friend and himself to show how the power thus vested in a single individual had been exercied. At present the Medical Director General of the army had the absolute power of appointing all the staff surgeons of the army and Ordnance, with the exception of the household troops, and he had the power of placing them in any part of the world where our Colonies were situated, with the single exception of Sierra Leone, to which Colony the medical men were allowed to volunteer. Now, he did not mean to say that favouritism had been shown by Dr. Andrew Smith in the exercise of his patronage or in the selection of the posts to which the medical officers had been appointed, but he thought it ought not to be in the power of any man to say that such a thing was even possible. If an Army Medical Board existed, whose duty it would be to sit upon the appoint-
 1509 1510 "Sir,—I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 27th instant, addressed to the Duke of Newcastle, and the copy of a communication to the Secretary at War which accompanied it. In reply, I beg to inform you that I do not feel myself warranted to recommend your being restored to full pay for service with the army in the East." brusque animus 1511 ambulances volantes 1512 "In addition to the proper duties of attendance upon the sick of his regiment or station, and to the prevention or removal of the causes of disease, the medical officer is also required to act as dispenser of medicines, as hospital steward, and as clerk. In the course of the duties of this latter office he has the charge of at least fourteen sets of elaborate books and forms, the keeping, filling, and transmitting of which would, if accurately done, occupy the greater part of the time of a skilful and laborious accountant. It is prudently provided that, should these archives 'accumulate to an unwieldly bulk'—should they exceed the capabilities of transport by ship or rail—the director general is to be applied to, and he may be expected in the plenitude of his wisdom and power to find a remedy—'he will give orders for their disposal.'" "The hospital sergeant illicitly performs the part of steward and dispenser, while the surgeon devotes his time and thoughts to the prevention and cure of disease, and to the consideration of such necessary measures for the improvement of the health and vigour of the soldiers with whom he is associated as he can recommend to the commanding officer. But why should a snare be laid to entrap him into a technical breach of orders? Throughout, our military surgeon is in all cases bound and trammelled by regulations; he can scarcely stir without a reference to the director general. When he goes forth, and when he returns, he is to report his movements to the director general. If his regiment changes quarters, he is to transmit to the director general a copy of the route. He must not expend more than 5 s. perdu 1513
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he begged to second the Motion. On religious grounds he believed that the measure was one of urgent necessity, inasmuch as those persons most conversant with statistics of crime bore testimony to the evil effects of Sabbath breaking as the commencement frequently of a vicious career. It was also desirable, inasmuch as it would give to many persons that rest of body and mind for the enjoyment of which the Sabbath was originally appointed. He supported the measure also upon economical grounds, because, so far from believing that a restriction upon Sunday trading would be injurious to the interests of the labouring classes, he thought that the practical effect of such trading was to compel a certain class of persons to do seven days' work for six day's profit.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, that this was not the first time that he had heard the two hon. and learned Gentlemen opposite make speeches such as they had just delivered; and, if he were not mistaken, he had heard the same observations, word for word, fall from them last Session. The Government were accused of intending to support a measure which was denounced as a sham and imposture; but he might remind the House that a measure quite as extensive was introduced by the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Napier) when Attorney-General for Ireland. It was, indeed, that right hon. and learned Gentleman who first introduced what it was now convenient to call a sham and imposture. That right hon. and learned Gentleman's measure contained not only the principle of giving compensation to tenants for improvements, but also a clause retrospectively affecting, without any limit as to time or the nature of the improvements, the relations of landlord and tenant. The Bill to which the right
 1550
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he must call upon the House to reject the propositions of the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny, on the ground that the House was in ignorance of the intentions of the Government with respect to it.
 LORD NAAS  said, he wished to say that the Bill originally introduced by the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin and the Bill now before the House were totally and essentially different. He feared that the people of Ireland were now further than ever from the boon they had hoped to obtain. He must say he thought the House ought not to consent to the second reading until the intentions of the Government were made known.
 MR. DUNLOP,  in moving the second reading of the Bill said, that its object was substantially to assimilate the law which now prevailed with regard to the property of intestates in Scotland with that in England and Ireland. In England, if one of a family predeceased his father, his brother or sister, the children of the deceased would take their father's share; but in Scotland that was not the case. The present state of the law was considered a great hardship, and the change would be hailed as a great boon. There was one provision of the Scotch law which he did not wish to alter. In England, if an intestate left both real and personal property, the heir was allowed both to take the real estate and to share in the personalty. In Scotland the heir was allowed the option either of taking the realty alone, or of collating; or, in other words, of adding the realty to the personalty, and sharing with the rest. He thought that that was the fairer rule, and he did not propose to make any change in that portion of the law. He had proposed, however, to make heritable bonds, which were almost identical with English mortgages, likewise divisible amongst the younger children; but, as that was a subject which ought perhaps to be taken up by the Government itself, he was willing
 1531
 MR. A. STAFFORD  said, that as many hon. Members would, no doubt, desire to be present at the ceremony in the city to-morrow, on the occasion of the visit of the Emperor and Empress of the French, it would be more convenient, he considered, if the House were to adjourn over to-morrow, and he would therefore move that the House at its rising adjourn until Friday.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that on the part of the Government, he fully admitted the importance of the measure, it being an embodiment of two measures which had already received the sanction of that House. He thought, therefore, that the House ought to give every facility to the hon. and learned Member in proceeding with the measure. As to the Government giving a day for the discussion of it, the next Government night was set apart for the Budget, and after that the Newspaper Stamps Bill would come on, so that until these important questions were got through, and which would no doubt occupy the House for some time, no other business could be allowed to interfere. But after those questions were disposed of, he should think that Government would be disposed to give every facility for proceeding with the measure. He would not give any pledge on the subject, but he had no doubt such
 1546
 MR. FRENCH  said, he thought that the second reading should be disposed of at once. If any more time were put off, the Lords would have the usual excuse that the Bill came up too late. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Horsman) would induce the other Members of the Government to allow it to come on on an early day.
 MR. FRENCH  seconded the Motion.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he begged to ask the hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Treasury, whether a sum of 46,896 l.,
 MR. G. H. MOORE  said, he hoped the House would now read the Bill a second time  sub silentio,
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he thought that a Bill of this kind ought not to be allowed to pass a second reading without a division. It was too bad to bring on a Bill of such importance when only one Member of the Cabinet, the right hon. Baronet the First Commissioner of Works (Sir W. Moles-worth) was present.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he could not allow a change of so much importance in the law of Scotland to be made without making a few observations on the subject. He was glad the hon. and learned Gentleman had turned his attention to this subject, which was one of great importance and surrounded with difficulties. Lord Campbell had some years ago introduced a measure of a similar nature, and two years ago he (the Lord Advocate) had been pressed to bring in a Bill dealing with the question. On looking carefully into it, he found that it so branched out, and was so full of intricacies, that he asked the learned body to which he belonged to appoint a Committee to consider the provisions that would be desirable to carry it into law. He had sat on that Committee, and many of the principles contained in the Bill now before the House were approved by that Committee. Under these circumstances, although he objected to some of the details and propositions of the measure proposed by the hon. and learned Member, he did not mean to object to the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. WHITESIDE  seconded the amendment.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he must deny that under the law as it now stood French and English fishermen enjoyed privileges not possessed by the Irish as to the taking of fish. The Act 6 & 7  Vict. Vict., 1542 l., l. Vict., Vict., 
 
 Boats. Men and Boys. 
 1836 10,761 54,119 
 1844 17,955 84,708 
 1845 19,863 93,073 
 1848 15,932 70,011 s. d. d.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he did not think they ought to be satisfied with the attempt at explanation by the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland, but that they ought to consider whether they would allow the interests of Ireland to be systematically trifled with by an imbecile Ministry. The noble lord at the head of the Government was a member of the Committee which sat on this subject, and was the person who proposed the rejection of the Bill of the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny, (Mr. Serjeant Shee.) The Bill had been styled mischievous and absurd by Members of the Government in the other House, but now the House had been told that the Government would support its second reading. The hon. and learned Serjeant, in introducing the present measure, plainly intimated to the noble lord at the head of the Government that if he voted for it he should remain Prime Minister; but if not, "I belong," significantly observed the hon. and learned Serjeant, "to a party on whom the fate of Ministries depend." He believed that the noble lord had taken counsel with the right hon. Member for Wells (Mr. Hayter) as to the number of votes which might be acquired for the Government by taking a certain course, and was now, as far as the statement just made by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland could be understood, prepared, in order to strengthen his ricketty Administration, to support provisions which he had formerly opposed. He asked Irish Members whether they believed in the sincerity of the Government, in their promise to support the measure, and whether the Government were not practising on the country a delusion and a sham. He emphatically denounced the conduct of the Government as an imposture. But the Bill could not pass the present House of Lords, and he asked whether the hon. and learned Serjeant believed in the sincerity of the noble lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston) and conceived that that noble lord would advise Her Majesty to create peers for the purpose of passing a measure which would enable tenants to demand compensation for what had been done in the time of their grandfathers. He had actually been informed by an attorney that this Bill, if passed, would apply to all estates purchased under the Encumbered Estates Act. If that was the case they would have petitions from every purchaser under this Act
 1549 ex post facto
 MR. WILSON  said, that in the years 1845 and 1846, during the time of the combined operations of the English and French squadrons, a certain amount had been advanced by the English Consul to the Montevidean Government. He found that the whole amount of the advances made by this country was 63,023 l., l, l.
 MR. GEORGE  said, in rising to support the Amendment, he felt that if he attempted to enter at any length into the subject he would be only weakening, instead of strengthening, the plain and unanswerable arguments advanced against the Bills by the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier). Although he represented the same county as the hon. and learned Gentleman who had introduced the Bills, he took a different view altogether as to the policy of such measures. He denied the right of his hon. and learned Colleague to call those Bills measures for assimilating the laws of England to Ireland. They might, he thought, be more aptly called measures to annihilate and destroy all the laws relating to fisheries in Ireland. During the last few years there had been a manifest and extraordinary improvement in the fisheries of the rivers of Ireland, and the quantity of salmon that had been taken there had been trebled or quadrupled. He therefore, thought, that the time was most ill chosen to attempt to alter those laws which were found to be of such practical benefit to the country. Believing that the repeal of those laws would prove most injurious to the poor fishermen themselves, he was there to prevent, as far as he could, the adoption of those measures. The effect of the measures would be to prevent the salmon going up the rivers for the purpose of spawning, and any that did get up would be destroyed in their passage down the rivers to the sea. The junction of the estuary with the sea was the most critical spot of all, and the one where it was most needful to afford protection; yet this was the precise point at which it was now proposed that protection should stop, and the fish should be abandoned to the
 1541
 MR. GEORGE  rose to address the House but it being now a quarter to six, Mr. Speaker interfered, and the Debate was adjourned till  Friday.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he wished to explain to the House how the case stood in respect of this Bill. Some time ago he had put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government as to what was the intention of the Government respecting it; but to that question he had got no satisfactory answer. The measure was composed partly of his (Mr. Napier's) Bill of last Session, the Leasing Powers Bill, and partly of Sir John Young's Tenants' Compensation Bill, which latter measure, after being considered by a Select Committee of the House of Lords, was rejected by that Committee with the full concurrence of the Members of the late Government, many of whom were also Members of the present Government. Now, the question he wanted to be answered was, whether Ministers meant to support the present Bill, brought in by the hon. and learned Serjeant in all its entireness. The experience of last Session convinced him that the two Bills which came down from the House of Lords—namely, the Leasing Powers Bill and the Landlord and Tenant Bill—constituted as large a measure on this subject as the most sanguine could hope to pass through Parliament; but both of those Bills were most unexpectedly abandoned by Sir John Young, because he was pressed to do so by those Irish Members who placed confidence in the Government, and, as he (Mr. Napier) did not happen to be among that number, he was thrown overboard. Well, the hon. and learned Serjeant in framing his present measure did not take the two Bills which passed the House of Lords last Session, but he took a Bill which had been rejected by the House of Lords, and tied it to another which had passed the House of Lords, and thus compounded the present measure. Again, he wished to inquire whether those Members of th Government who assented to the rejection of the Tenants' Compensation Bill in the House of Lords were now prepared to support the present measure. In his opinion, the Bill was nothing but a delusion, because it could not be expected that it would ever pass through Parliament; and he certainly would be no party to a delusion on the people of Ireland. Would the Government support the Bill as it stood in all its integrity, in both Houses of Parlia-
 1547
 MR. NAPIER  said, he rose to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months, and he thought he would have very little difficulty in proving to English and Scotch representatives in whom the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. M'Mahon) seemed to have much more confidence than in Members from Ireland, that they ought to join in rejecting this measure, as well as the second Bill having reference to the inland fisheries. The two Bills were vitally and essentially connected, and had previously been kept together; but this Session the Bills were separated. Now, the effect of passing this Bill, to say nothing of the subsequent one, would be simply this—that whereas a bye-law at present existed which affected the river Slaney, which was in the county of Wexford, represented by the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. M'Mahon)—now up that river a tideway or estuary went for a considerable distance—but by a bye-law passed in 1854, the fishermen on the Slaney were restrained from fishing with seine nets during the close seasons between certain points on the river. Well, the effect would be that that portion of the river would be exposed to the operations of constituents of the hon. and learned Member. Indeed, he might lay it down as a general rule with reference to these Irish Fishery Bills, which were brought in year after year, that if one were made acquainted with the particular restrictions or customs prevailing in the locality represented by the mover, a pretty correct conjecture might be formed as to what would be the main clauses and principal points of any Bill. He believed no one would be disposed to deny that the salmon fisheries of Ireland were beginning to flourish, and that the code of laws framed to regulate the Irish fisheries were at last working most beneficial effects. From every locality in Ireland testimony was offered to that fact, and yet they were now asked to repeal the Act of 1842 and subsequent Acts, under which all that good had been effected, and to derange the vested rights acquired. Let the House, at the same time, observe that the Bill now before them applied not merely to the sea coast, but to harbours and estuaries, which might be termed the very nursery of the fisheries, where the fish were most exposed, and where, there-
 1535 1536 1537 1538 1539
 MR. MONTAGU CHAMBERS  said, he had understood, although he hoped he was in error, that Irishmen were in many instances deprived of the privilege of fishing in their own seas, and that they did not even enjoy the privileges that were possessed by Englishmen. The Act 6 & 7  Vict., Vict.,
 MR. M'MAHON,  in reply, said that the Bill had no connection whatever with the inland fisheries of Ireland, but solely related to the question whether Irishmen were to have the same privilege on their own coasts as they would have on the coasts of England, Fance, America, or any other country, or as the people of those countries would have on the coasts of Ireland.
 MR. M'MAHON,  in moving the second reading of the Bill, said, the object of it was to assimilate the fishery laws of Ireland to those of England. He particularly desired hon. Members to consider that this Bill did not form a necessary part of another Bill which stood for second reading, the Inland Fisheries (Ireland) Bill. They were totally unconnected, and their objects were altogether different. At present there was one law for the east and another for the west coast of the Irish Channel, and this anomaly also applied to different parts of Ireland itself, there being one law for Dublin Bay and another for Galway Bay. He would, therefore, revert to the ancient wisdom of our ancestors, and make the laws on this subject uniform. He considered that this diversity of law produced a very prejudicial effect upon the fishery trade of Ireland. In order that hon. gentlemen from England and Scotland might be made aware of the declining state of the Irish sea-coast fisheries, he would bring to their notice the fact that
 1532 l. l. 1533 l.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he did not mean to enter into details with regard to this Bill, which also stood for a second reading; but he would just state that it had for its object, not as had been said, the destruction of the salmon fry, but its protection. For the present he should withdraw the Bill; but as long as he had a seat in that House he should never rest contented until both as regarded the inland fisheries and the sea-coast fisheries his constituents and
 1545
 MR. KENNEDY  said, all that was wanted was to assimilate the law of Ireland in relation to fisheries to that of England, the circumstances of the case in both countries being the same. It seemed, however, to be a feature in all legislation for Ireland to assimilate the law of Ireland with that of England, where the circumstances were totally different, and to dissimilate it where the circumstances were exactly the same.
 MR. KEOGH  said, the Act for carrying out the French convention only applied to the fishing of foreigners more than three miles from the coast. Now, the Act of which the hon. and learned Member for Wexford (Mr. M'Mahon) complained related to restrictions imposed upon fishing
 1543
 MR. KEOGH  said, he did not complain of the right hon. and learned Gentleman availing himself of this opportunity of stating his objections against the measure, but he did think his right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland had some reason to complain of his conduct. They were now arrived at within five minutes to five o'clock, and the time for discussion was, therefore, necessarily short. It was well known that the noble Lord at the head of the Government could not be present, as he was at Windsor, and he was sure every one would rejoice at the cause of his absence. Well, then, what had occurred? The House had been engaged for four hours most unprofitably, as he considered, in discussing a measure which had been rejected, and the promoter and author of which, being a warm supporter of the measure now before the House, it might have been supposed would have given way for the discussion of this important measure. That, however, he had not done, and it had not, therefore, been the fault of the Government that time had not been given for the discussion of this measure. Well, then, when it was brought on towards the close of the sitting, the hon. and learned Gentleman who had charge of the measure, seeing there was not time for the discussion of it, put it to the Government whether they would not give him a day for the discussion of it. In that appeal he was met by his right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland, who stated that he could not pledge himself now that a day would be given, but that he would use every exertion in his power, and give every facility for having the measure proceeded with. With that assurance the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Kilkenny seemed perfectly satisfied. Then the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin rose and asked what were the intentions of Government respecting the measure. Why did he not do so previous to his right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland (Mr. Horsman) rising? If he had done so, he would have been told what the intentions of Government were on the subject when the question came properly before the House—it would then he quite time enough for the Government to say what they would do with the measure in that House, as well as in the other.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE,  in moving the second reading of the Bill, said, it was too late (half-past four o'clock) then to discuss the principle or the details of the measure, but he appealed to hon. Gentlemen to consider whether, when almost every word of the Bill had received the assent of the House, after long discussion, and an inquiry by a Select Committee, it would be reasonable to oppose the second reading. He appealed to hon. Gentlemen on that side of the House whether it would not facilitate a proper settlement of the question to allow the Bill to be read a second time that evening, reserving all discussion until the Motion for going into Committee was made, and he likewise appealed to the Government whether, considering the peculiar circumstances in which he had been placed by the discussion that day it would not be possible to give him a Government night. The present Bill differed very little from that which received the assent of Lord Aberdeen's Government in that House, and did not differ materially from the Bills introduced by the right hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier) when he was Attorney General for Ireland under Lord Derby's Government.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, he must
 1551
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, after listening to the debate, he had come to the conclusion that no answer had been given to the arguments used by the hon. and learned Member for Wexford (Mr. M'Mahon), who had charge of this measure. The argument of the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier) against the measure was, that the sea-coast fisheries of Ireland ought not to be encouraged in
 1544
 MR. DUFFY  said, he was sorry that the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Napier) should have thought it necessary to impute personal motives to the hon. and learned Member for Wexford (Mr. M'Mahon) in connection with these Bills. It was within his own knowledge that long before the hon. and learned Gentleman was Member for Wexford, he had taken the same identical views which those Bills meant to establish in an article, which had been often quoted, in the  Dublin Review. 1540
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER said : I feel, Sir, that some apology, or at least some explanation, is due to the House for the postponement of the financial statement which I have to make on the part of Her Majesty's Government to the present moment. It was the wish of the Government that this statement should be as complete and, as far as it was in their power to make it, as satisfactory to the House as possible; and they were apprehensive that if it had been made shortly after the formation of a new Administration, and immediately after the appointment of a new Chancellor of the Exchequer, such a statement would have been less satisfactory to the House than if a longer period were allowed to elapse. The Government also felt that there was an advantage in waiting until the financial year had expired, as they would thereby be enabled to lay the annual accounts before the country in a more perfect form. At the same time, the Conferences at Vienna having lately commenced, Her Majesty's Government thought that it would be more seemly if at the commencement of these Conferences, and before they were able to form any judgment of the views likely to be entertained by the other great Powers, they did not proceed at once to lay before the House a statement of our annual expenditure and estimates founded on supplies already voted, and
 1556 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1557 l l l l l l l l l l l l 1558 l l l l l l l l l l l 1559 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1560 l l l l l "It is very tempting to a Minister to employ such an expedient, as it enables him to make a great figure during his administration, without overburdening the people with taxes, or exciting any immediate clamours against himself. The practice, therefore, of contracting debt will almost infallibly be abused by every Government. It would scarcely be more imprudent to give a prodigal son a credit in every banker's shop in London, than to empower a statesman to draw bills in this manner upon posterity." 1561 1562 l.; l. l., l., l., l., l.; l. l., l. l. l. 1563 1564 1565 1566 l l 1567 l l 1568 Essay on Public Credit, dictum. dictum, l l l l l 1569 l l l l l l l 1570 s l s s s. d s. d., s. d. s. d. s., s. d. s., s., s. s., s., s., s. s. s. d. b. d. b. d.; l s. d. s. d., s. d., s. d. d. 1571 l l l s. d. s. s. s. 1572 l l l l l l l l l 1573 l d l l l l l l l l l l l l., 1574 l l. l. l. l. l. l. 1575 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.; l., l. l. l. 1576 l. l. s. d.,
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was impossible for the Government to make any statement when about to contract for a loan concerning additional taxes not then proposed to Parliament. Of course, those gentlemen who made offers for the loan did so with the knowledge that any additional taxation might possibly affect terminable annuities.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : In answer to the first question of the hon. Baronet with respect to the expenses of the war, I may inform him that the chief part of the expenses of the army, navy, and ordnance department, is met by payments in ready money; and that with regard to the charges for transports, and for various contracts for food and clothing, the payments were made every quarter, and have been made within the last few days—at all events very recently. No doubt some of these payments may be in arrear, but I do not apprehend that the amount is very large. With respect to the Exchequer bills and bonds referred to, no portion of them is payable next year, and therefore no provision for them is necessary at present. With regard to the terminable annuities referred to by the hon. Baronet, I am perfectly aware that they are subject to the income tax. In my opinion, it is right in principle that an annuity terminable in a certain length of time should be considered as income, and be subject to the income tax. Those who take terminable annuities reckon upon the income tax as one of the elements of their calculation when they offer a certain price. So long as the income tax exists their calculation holds good, and if the income tax should be diminished or repealed they receive a benefit upon their speculation. The Committee will be aware that terminable annuities to a considerable extent were created in the late war at the time when the income tax was in operation, and no doubt the loans then entered into were entered into upon the calculation of the income tax. With regard to what the hon. Member for the Wick boroughs said in reference to terminable annuities, I apprehend that these annuities are terminable stock in the same sense as railway debentures in this country are terminable stocks. They are loans granted for a short term of years, which, when the term expires, are renewed
 1589
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I am induced to rise at this period of the discussion, because I do not feel entirely certain that the Committe are aware of the precise nature and bearings of the Resolution which has already been read from the chair. In the excellent speech of my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer—a speech distinguished as well by the utmost candour and fairness as by its great clearness —in that excellent speech I only regretted a single omission—namely, that my right hon. Friend did not state to us precisely both the order of the Votes he intended to ask for to-night, and likewise the exact effect and character of those Votes. If, therefore, I now presume to state what is the nature and character of those Votes, I do so only with a view of offering my
 1590 l. 1.; 1591 1592 l. l. l. l. l. l., l., l. 1593 l. l. 1594 1595 1596 1597 l l. l. l. l. l. l. 1598 1599
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  wished to say a few words in reply to the observations of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone). In negotiating the loan now under the consideration of the House the Government had strictly followed the precedents set by former Governments; and, though they were conscious that the course necessarily limited to a certain extent the discretion of the House, and would gladly have adopted some other means of providing for existing exigencies, they had found it impossible to resort to any other course. It was not their wish to do so if they could have adopted any other course previously to obtaining the consent of the House; but it must be obvious to any hon. Member, on reflection, that it would be utterly impossible for any Government to come down to the House and discuss the manner in which a loan should be effected, to arrange the minimum terms, and settle the details of negotiations which, in order to be successful, must necessarily be settled in private. So far from obtaining more satisfactory terms by
 1605 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1606 l. l.
 MR. H. BAILLlE  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer appeared to have misunderstood the observations of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for East Suffolk (Sir F. Kelly), in whose views he entirely concurred. He (Mr. Baillie) believed that if the Chancellor of the Exchequer had gone into the market, and had borrowed money at the present rate of interest, which was about 3½ per cent, instead of bargaining to pay what was equivalent to 3¾ per cent, the Three-and-a-half per Cents thus created might, on the conclusion of peace, have been reduced without difficulty to Three per cents, and the country would have been relieved from a burden of ¾ per cent upon the debt, which under the present plan they would be compelled to pay for thirty years.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, his proposition was that the increase should apply to incomes generally.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  stated, in reply to a question from Mr. CRAUFURD, that the Government had no intention to make any alteration with regard to the drawback on malt
 MR. BENTINCK  rose to move, that Mr. John Ball be discharged from further attendance on Army before Sebastopol Committee, and that Captain Scobell be appointed in his place. The hon. Gentleman said that he wished, in bringing forward this Motion, to state in the first place, that he did so without any wish to disparage the hon. Gentleman whose name was involved in it. Upon general grounds no one probably was more competent to be a Member of the Committee than the hon. Member for the county Carlow; but it appeared to him to be perfectly impossible that an hon. Gentleman who was a Member of the Government could look upon a Committee, or upon the report of a Committee, which was to try the conduct of that Government, with the same impartiality as if he were sitting below the gangway in the place he occupied in the early part of the Session. A great deal was said at the time the Committee was formed of the importance of having the most impartial names that could be selected for the purpose. With that view various names were selected and various names were rejected. Now, to have on that Committee the name of an hon. Gentleman himself a Member of the Government, was, he humbly submitted, a proceeding wholly inconsistent with previous acts. They might be told, however, that the present Government was not that whose conduct was being inquired into.
 1612
 MR. F. HUME  seconded the Motion.
 MR.BENTINCK  then rose to propose that Captain Scobell should be placed upon the Committee in the room of Mr. Ball. He had no doubt that the arrangement declared to have been made between the Government, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, and the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Roebuck), was very satisfactory to the parties concerned; but he, for one, was not inclined to concur in that arrangement. The rule that the Government and the mover of the Committee should come to an understanding in a case like the present, and that the appointment should rest with them, might be a very good rule under ordinary circumstances, but could not be accepted now. It was a monstrous proposition to assert that the Government were to have the nomination of half a Committee, when that Committee was called upon to inquire into their conduct and character. He had no wish to say anything disrespectful of the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. De Vere), but that Gentleman had only been a Member of that House for three or four months, and he would ask whether a gentleman who had had such short Parliamentary experience was fit to be placed on the Committee in the middle of its deliberations? The country was looking with intense interest for the Report of this Committee— the characters of many public men depended upon it; and nothing could be more absurd than that they should choose as one of the Committee an hon. Member who had not had the advantage of more than two or three months' Parliamentary experience.
 MR. BENTINCK , in reply, expressed his surprise at the persistence of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield in the extraordinary argument he had adopted. The hon. Gentleman told them that the Committee was formed upon an understanding between the Government and certain other persons; but he (Mr. Bentinck) contended that that was not the principle on which the Committee ought to be formed, and was a total misconception of the manner in which Committees were nominated in that House. The process of appointing a Committee was for the mover of a Committee, after having obtained the sanction of the House to his proposal, to submit to the House a certain number of names; but this was the first time he had ever heard the doctrine broached that the Government ought to be consulted as to the composition of a Committee. Such a doctrine would be highly objectionable, especially where the character of the Government was involved. As an independent Member his conduct was not called in question in the investigation, whereas the conduct of at least half of the Members of the Cabinet was impugned, and he, therefore, submitted that as an independent Member he was more entitled to suggest who should compose the Committee than the Government.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : Sir, I having on a previous occasion expressed how firmly I held the opinion that a naval officer ought to have been included among the Members of the Committee, that inquiry embracing the conduct and administration of the Transport Service, and the condition of Balaklava harbour, I had not been induced to have addressed you, Sir, at this time, were it not from the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Roebuck) having expressed his opinion that a tailor would be of as much use as a sailor in the Committee. Now the fact is, did the House possess such a Member? A tailor would render good service in the Committee, seeing that so much turned upon the arrangement for clothing the troops, and the mismanagement in that department. For my part, I cannot but repeat how deeply I regret that no Member of the naval profession was placed upon that Committee, for none but a seaman is capable of eliciting such information and such answers as ought to satisfy the Members whether there was any foundation for the charges made against the naval authorities on the very difficult and complicated subject of the Transport Service and the management of Balaklava harbour; and the inevitable consequence of naming a Committee of hon. Members without a naval officer has, I know, produced much dissatisfaction in the country. I, in common with hon. Members, only desire a fair inquiry and no favour, such as may enable us to avoid fresh disasters and mismanagement of affairs. An able naval officer ought to have been at every port whence transports
 1617
 MR. LIDDELL  asked upon what ground the Government could claim the right of appointing a Member of this Committee? Who first called for the inquiry? Why, the people; and Parliament, responding to the appeal of the country, consented to the appointment of this Committee to investigate the conduct of those whose mismanagement had destroyed one of the noblest armies that had ever left our shores; and that House, as representing the people, ought to appoint the Members of the Committee and not the Government. And yet they were told that by arrangement the Government had the right to appoint a portion of the Committee. He protested against such an extraordinary doctrine as that laid down by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck), and thought the House would best discharge its duty by disregarding the arrangement, if there was any, and filling up the vacancy themselves.
 MR. FREWEN  thought some portion of the propositions of the right hon. Baronet would meet with considerable opposition. He wished to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to the desirability of giving every possible facility to a person charged with the income tax without being liable to it, or who had been overcharged, to appeal against the tax. He could assure the right hon. Gentleman that many persons whose incomes were considerably under 100 1.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he felt that he could not consistently with his duty give a silent vote upon the Resolutions before the Committee; but he felt called upon to call attention to one or two considerations regarding the loan which
 1600 l. l. l. 1601 l. l. s. d. 1602 l. l. l. s. d. l. l. l. s. d., l. s. d. s. l. l.
 MR. FRENCH  said, the inquiry was one which had been demanded by the nation, and accorded by the House of Commons; and it was the duty of the House
 1615
 MR. MUNTZ  said, the hon. Gentleman
 1609
 MR. MUNTZ  wished to know from the noble Lord whether the statement which he saw in  The Times
 MR. MUNTZ  complained that the House of Commons was becoming every day more and more a cipher. He felt in great difficulty upon this subject. He had not the honour of knowing the hon. Gentleman whose name was proposed to be added to the Committee, even by sight, and in voting for a member of the Committee he
 1621
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  hoped the House would give themselves no great trouble about his feelings or his desires, for he had no great feeling or desire to be upon the Sebastopol Committee. It should be remembered that no vacancy was declared by the Government until this Motion was made. The hon. Member for Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck) said to him, he thought the Under Secretary for the Colonies ought to vacate his seat; and would he allow his name to be proposed, as it would not do to propose any Member from the Opposition side, the Member withdrawing having sat on the Government side of the House? He concurred in thinking that the hon. Member for Carlow was disqualified from acting on the Committee by accepting office, and consented to the proposal of his name. He thought the joke about the tailor and the sailor unworthy of the quarter from which it came. He expected to have found more solidity in the learned Gentleman than was consistent with cracking jokes, because the two words, with the exception of a letter, were identical. But, since sailors were dispa-
 1619 1620
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  asked the First Lord of the Treasury whether it was intended by Government to entertain the proposition of Admiral the Earl of Dundonald; and, if not, whether the Government would object to the "searching investigation" into the merits of the plan, and which the Earl of Dundonald continues to solicit?
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, it was at all times exceedingly difficult to select competent persons to serve on Committees. The House complained, and justly too, of the enormous lengths to which the Reports of Select Committees ran; but that arose in a great measure from the circumstance of appointing Members who were unable to give their full attendance upon the Committee, or who did not understand the question to be inquired into, and, there-
 1616
 MR. WILSON  said, that a sum of 23,707 l.
 MR. J. BALL  said that Her Majesty's Government had not given any directions on the subject to which the question of the hon. Gentleman related, and he had also to state that the Bill to which reference had been made had been referred to those gentlemen who usually examined those Bills which were sent to this country front the Colonies; but he himself had not seen the Bill, and could not, therefore, express any opinion as to its provisions. He might add that the measure to which the hon. Member had referred had not been sent to this country in consequence of any communication from the Home Government.
 Mr. JOHN BALL  discharged from further attendance on the Committee.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  rose to warn the House against reporting the Resolutions in a hasty and ill-considered manner. The effect of reporting these Resolutions would be to enable the Government to levy from to-morrow all the new taxes indicated by them, without having to wait for the authorisation of distinct Acts of Parliament. He was quite aware that to oppose this new scheme of taxation would be quite in vain, unsupported as the attempt must be by any organised party opposition. Still he could not allow the moment to pass without entering his protest against the rash interference with the progress of industry and commerce contemplated by the proposal announced that evening.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he would give the Chancellor of the Exchequer credit for sincerity in the conviction that his measures were of the best possible character; but he was compelled to differ from him. He did not think that the present state of affairs justified a loan in the manner now proposed; he objected not only to the form of it, but he thought the right hon. Gentleman had committed a grave error in not having thrown it open to public competition. If that course had been pursued, and the necessary amount had been borrowed in the form of terminable annuities, no doubt sufficient money could have been obtained at an average rate of 31 per cent, with this advantage, that the debt would have vanished for ever at a given period. When the late French loan was announced and thrown open to public competition, more than double the sum demanded was rapidly subscribed; and a similar result would, in all probability, attend the adoption of that principle in this country. The country had long pronounced its verdict against any addition being made to its permanent debt, and the House should therefore pause before it suffered itself to be hastily drawn into sanctioning a fallacious and dangerous principle. The Government had not treated the country with confidence in this matter. There was now less prospect of peace than there was six months ago—the war was now only at its commencement, and it was obvious that if there was a deficit of 23,000,000 l. 1608
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  denied that it was right, though it might be the practice, to enter into a sort of cabal with the Minister as to the members to be nominated on a Committee. He also denied that any man of common sense would be a fit person to be nominated. A good ploughman might have common sense, but he was not therefore a good judge of the circumstances attending the loss of the  Prince.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, the noble Lord at the head of the Government had appealed to the Irish Members to vote against the Motion of the hon. Member for Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck), but he thought the hon. Gentleman deserved the greatest credit for the manner in which he had brought his proposal forward. The noble Lord said, it was desirable to have one Irish Member on the Committee; but, if that were desirable, why had not more than one Irish Member been placed upon it? The conduct of many of the men who sat upon the Ministerial bench was involved in the inquiry, and it would be unfair to the country to allow the Government, by the connivance of any party in that House, to pack the Committee in their own favour. He acknowledged the abilities of the hon. Member for Limerick; but he must say at once, that he thought the hon. and gallant Member for Bath a more fit person to appoint upon the Committee. With regard to the remarks which had fallen from the hon. Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond), the hon. Gentleman had merely acted upon this occasion as he had upon many others, namely, made a speech upon one side of the question, and ended by voting on the other. It appeared from the observations of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield that a most important witness—a gentleman who had charge of Balaklava harbour—was about to be examined, and it was, therefore, highly desirable to have a naval officer upon the Committee. The hon. and learned Member for Sheffield asked if the public were not satisfied with the Committee. He would give the hon. Gentleman an honest answer. He fully believed in the uprightness of the hon. Gentlemen, but he must say the tone and whole object of the Committee seemed to be to deal with the inquiry rather delicately. There was a vast amount of mealy mouthedness exhibited in that House, and a great deal of delicacy upstairs. In his opinion there was one man whose conduct ought particularly to
 1622 The Times
 MR. MASTERMAN  said, he thought the House ought to come to an early decision with regard to the loan. He did not think the Government had made an unfavourable bargain for the country. In his opinion the House should be satisfied with the bargain, and not hesitate to sanction it.
 MR. ROEBUCK  fully concurred with the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bentinck) as to the propriety of discharging the hon. Member for Carlow from the Committee; but he thought the hon. Member was going somewhat beyond his province in nominating the Member who should supply his place. It would be remembered that there was a distinct understanding that the nomination of a portion of the Committee should be left to the Government, and amongst those whom they selected was the hon. Member for Carlow; but the hon. Member having been appointed Under Secretary for the Colonies, he had become incompetent to discharge his duties as a Member of the Committee. As he began the Committee, so he should continue to support it; and since, by arrangement, it was left to the Government to nominate a portion of the Committee, and one of the Members whom they selected was the hon. Member now proposed to be discharged, he thought, in all fairness, they ought to have the power of naming his successor. But it was said the naval element was wanting in the Committee;
 1613
 MR. ROEBUCK  explained that the existing Committee was appointed upon an understanding with himself, and the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, which understanding gave the Government the right to nominate a portion of the Committee, and all that he now said was, that that understanding should be adhered to, and that one of the Members appointed by the Government having been withdrawn, they should propose another in his place.
 MR. ROEBUCK  submitted that he had correctly represented what the gallant admiral had said. The gallant admiral seemed to have confounded the province of a witness with the province of a judge. Any one of common sense could judge of the matters which the Committee were investigating, and no hon. Member had forborne to give his opinion because he was not a sailor. One official had arrived, and he was given to understand the gentleman who was in command at Balaklava was on his way to this country. The Committee had examined some witnesses as to the conduct of persons in Balaklava harbour, and they would examine those gentlemen also. He wanted to know why they were to be called upon to appoint a gentleman on the nomination of hon. Gentlemen opposite? He could only repeat that the Committee was formed upon an understanding. ["No! "and" Hear!"] Could there be any man in that House who did not know that propositions of that sort were always made upon an understanding? Without an understanding he could not have carried the Committee, or any Member of it. He went behind the Speaker's chair, and entered into correspondence with gentlemen on both sides of the House with the view to form a Committee which would give satisfaction to the country. It would be seen by and by whether they had performed their duties to the satisfaction of the House
 1618
 MR. HEYWORTH  said, he had a most serious objection to all indirect taxation, because it tended to raise the price of all articles of general consumption. If prices were raised, consumption diminished, and a diminished consumption materially affected the industry of the country, destroying the very sources from which the country derived all the wealth which paid all the taxes. That was the ground on which politically he objected to indirect taxation. Members of that House did not like to increase their income tax, or to impose any additional tax upon those who were rich; but they had no hesitation in putting it upon the poor in the shape of a tax upon articles which they consumed, and which they paid for out of their incomes. It would have been far more politic and just to raise the additional taxation by an increased income tax, even if it amounted to 20 per cent—that would have shown some hardihood and nobleness in their warlike profession—but he should oppose any measure which recognised the objectionable system of indirect taxation.
 MR. MARTIN SMITH  wished to learn from the right hon. Gentleman whether or not he had given notice to the parties with whom he contracted the loan this morning, partly in terminable annuities, of his intention to levy an additional tax upon terminable annuities. He could hardly believe that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would contract a loan in terminable annuities in the morning, and put a tax on them in the evening, without notice.
 MR. MALINS  said, having last year deprecated any attempt to raise the amount required annually during the war from taxes levied within the year, he felt extremely gratified that the present Chancellor of the Exchequer was not about to engage in such a task. On general principles he approved of the plan adopted by the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the purpose of meeting the deficiency; and he thought the Government had made a fair compromise between direct and indirect taxation, when they proposed to raise 3,300,000 l. l. l.
 MR. HILDYARD  wished to know whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer pro-
 1610 l.
 MR. LAING  observed, that the foreign railways he had referred to had obtained money upon securities strictly terminable. A person bought what he supposed to be an annuity of 10 per cent, and it positively terminated in it certain number of years.
 MR. LAING  said, that though the present was not the proper time to go into the details of the Budget, still the question raised by the present Resolutions involved principles of such great and vital importance that he thought it would be wrong for hon. Members to commit themselves to what might be deemed the sanction of those principles without any discussion whatever. He believed the Committee would disappoint the expectations of the public out of doors if they allowed these Resolutions to pass  sub silentio, 1582 l. l. l. 1583 l. l. 1584 1585 l l. 1586 l. l.
 MR. THORNELY  was gratified to learn from the Chancellor of the Exchequer that they would not bind themselves by assenting to the Resolution in the chairman's hands, to appropriate a million a year after a treaty of peace had been signed, to the extinction of the three per cent consols. He totally objected to the making of such an engagement beforehand, and was satisfied with the present arrangement with regard to the sinking fund.
 MR. WILKINSON  said, he thought that the plan of the Chancellor of the Exchequer for raising the loan had been contrived so as to meet objections from both sides; because it would not defray the increased expenditure entirely from the revenue of the year, neither would it do so wholly by loan; while on the other hand, the amount to be borrowed would not be raised exclusively by perpetual annuities nor by terminable annuities. The scheme was therefore based upon a combination of the different principles advocated in oppo-
 1607 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that, so far as concerned the direct taxation the right hon. Gentleman proposed, he saw nothing particularly objectionable, but he decidedly
 1603 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l., l. l., l. l. 1604
 MR. DUFFY  rose to ask a question with regard to the status of the Church of England in the Australian Colonies. He wished to ask the Under Secretary for the Colonies whether the Government had directed any departure to be made from the system of religious equality which had hitherto been established in the colonies of Australia; and whether the Royal assent had been withheld from a Bill which passed the Legislative Council of Victoria in November last, entitled "An Act to enable the Bishop, Clergy, and Laity of the United Church of England and Ireland, in Victoria, to provide for the regulation of the affairs of the said Church."
 MR. BOWYER  begged to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, whether the sum of 23,707 l. s. d.,
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he should not enter into the question raised by the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, but rather seek to obtain information
 1587 l. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1588
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : No orders have been given, except to take the town of Sebastopol as soon as possible.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The Earl of Dundonald, everybody knows, is a most distinguished officer, and who not only combines naval and practical experience, but has also very great scientific attainments. The Earl of Dundonald from time to time has signified to the Government of the day that he has a plan which he conceives would afford great facilities for naval attacks on fortresses. That plan was last year submitted to the consideration of a Committee of naval officers and scientific men, and is still under the consideration of Her Majesty's Government. But under the circumstances I really cannot
 1555
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, it was the uniform practice of the House, when a Committee was to be appointed to investigate matters of such deep and great
 1614
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he should be extremely sorry if the hon. and gallant Member were to leave the House under the impression that anything which he (Viscount Palmerston) had stated, was meant in the slightest degree to impugn his impartiality, ability, and least of all, that upon which the hon. Gentleman very properly prided himself—his independence. He could assure his hon. and gallant Friend that what he had stated had no reference to his hon. Friend personally, but referred entirely to the question of the manner in which understandings took place with regard to the appointment of Committees. What he had intended to say was, that an understanding between the mover of a Committee and other persons in the House was absolutely necessary, in order to secure the services of hon. Members competent, by their impartiality, ability, and other qualifications, to discharge the duties intrusted to them. That observation applied to the general question, and not in the least to his hon. and gallant Friend, who, in point, of impartiality and ability, was, undoubtedly, as fit to serve upon the Committee as any other Member of that House. The grounds upon which he had thought the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. de Vere) a more fit person to be chosen upon the Committee than his hon. and gallant Friend were, that, inasmuch as the vacancy had arisen in consequence of the withdrawal of an Irish Member, and as there was no other Irish Member upon the Committee, there ought to be upon it at least one Irish Member, considering how deeply Irishmen and Irish matters were interested in the inquiry. It was solely upon that ground that he had objected to the proposal of the hon. Member opposite; and he hoped if his hon. and gallant Friend left the House, he would carry with him the conviction that nothing had been further from his (Viscount Palmerston's) intention than to state anything in the least disparaging of the independence and ability of his hon. and gallant Friend.
 COLONEL LINDSAY said, that perhaps the House would allow him to explain that the new clothing of the Guards was not sent out, but the clothing they had taken out had only been worn one quarter of a year, and was as good if not better than that now in wear by the army in the Crimea. The new clothing would be sent out in the course of the summer, and would be taken into wear when most wanting, namely, during the next winter.
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY said, the House would perhaps allow him to explain what it was he had stated in answer to the hon. and gallant Member for Chippenham (Colonel Boldero) who first brought the subject forward. The hon. and gallant Gentleman, having remarked that last year there were a great number of vacancies in the medical department of the fleets sent to the Baltic and Black Sea, he (Admiral Berkeley) had thought it his duty to contradict that statement. He accordingly stated that there was a proper allowance of medical men in both of those fleets, and that he had never heard any complaint upon the subject before. An anonymous letter in  The Times 1628
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER brought up the Report of the Resolutions agreed to in Committee of Ways and Means.
 MR. GLADSTONE said, he concurred in two important points to which the hon. Member for Huntingdon (Mr. T. Baring) had just adverted. He was firmly convinced that it would not be possible for the Chancellor of the Exchequer to contract for so large a sum of money as he required upon the terms of terminable annuities except at prices wholly extravagant and disproportionate. He thought, likewise, that he had done service to the cause of truth and to his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer in saying that which he hoped would tend to dissipate the delusive opinion which prevailed—namely, that it would be competent for the Chancellor of the Exchequer to adopt the mode of proceeding with respect to the loan which had been so wisely taken in France—an opinion which he thought could never be en-
 1637 1638 l. l. 1639 1640
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I have, Sir, listened with the utmost respect to the remarks made by my right hon. Friends the Members for the two Universities on the proposal contained in the resolution before the House with respect to the annual repayment of the loan after the expiration of the war. The opinions which they have expressed will command great weight, not only from their financial experience, but from their ability in all matters relating to this branch of the subject. Sir, I fully admit that the Resolution in question is not a matter of contract between the Government and the lenders of the 16,000,000 l., 1645 l. l., l. 1646 l. 1647 l. l. 1648 1649 l.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER said, that, with regard to the savings-bank money, the Act authorised the Government to direct the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt to sell stock belonging to the savings banks, and to exchange them for any other Government securities. Exchequer bills, although they were temporary and renewable securities, were just as binding upon the Government as securities which had a longer duration; and when the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National
 1650 l.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Yes; I apprehend it does. It includes the whole of the money voted in Supply. agreed to; l. l.
 MR. GLADSTONE said, he wished to submit two points to the consideration of his right hon. Friend. The object of his right hon. Friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was to secure the application of a certain amount of money in time of peace towards the reduction of the national debt. But that object, he conceived, might be attained without adopting the objectionable and awkward course of binding the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt to lay out money in redeeming a particular description of security which it might be most unwise at that particular time to purchase. He would suggest that the clause should give the Chancellor of the Exchequer power to issue his 1,000,000 l. l. 1651 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. GLADSTONE said, he thought he was hardly open to the remark, that his
 1652
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER said, the alteration which his right hon. Friend (Mr. Gladstone) had suggested was not to exclude Exchequer bills or Exchequer bonds or any other description of security, not Three per Cent Consols, from being redeemed under this clause. Perhaps, the House would allow him to consider the suggestion, and, if it should be found desirable to make the change pointed out, it could be done when the Bill was before the House. He certainly did not see any objection to applying the 1,000,000 l.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER said, the explanation he had to give was, that this Resolution had been drawn up on the same plan as the Resolution for a similar object relating to the increase of the spirit duty was prepared by his right hon. Friend and predecessor last year, and which was then adopted by the House. It was on that occasion declared that the stock in hand should be subject to the increased duty on the same principle that the stock in hand had the benefit in the case of a reduction of duty.
 THE CHANCELLOR, OF THE EXCHEQUER said, that there existed no doubt as to what was the practice in these cases with respect to the stocks of the distillers, and that the only question that arose was with respect to the stocks in the hands of the rectifiers and of the dealers in spirits. He was not prepared to say whether the practice either way had been uniform. He would take the subject into consideration, and, if the hon. Gentleman would bring the question again before the House, he would be prepared to express his final opinion upon it.
 LORD STANLEY said, the question immediately before the Committee was whether, in sending a newspaper through the Post Office, the stamp should be a penny or a halfpenny? and there was a further question, whether the postage charged, whatever it might be, should send a newspaper through the post once only or several times? Now as to the latter question, affecting the retransmission of newspapers, he apprehended there was some little collision between what ought to be done in deference to existing interests, and what should be done on the principles of abstract right. He never
 1664 de novo 1665
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER said, he must beg to recall the attention of the Committee to the origin of the Bill now before them. The Bill originated in difficulty which arose in enforcing the compulsory stamp. It was found that the law was ambiguous, and some inconvenience had arisen in the practical-administration of it. A Resolution was passed by the House last year condemnatory of the stamp, but not adverting to the pecuniary amount of the stamp, and in the present Session a Bill was introduced by the right hon. gentleman his predecessor, dealing with the question. The object of that Bill was to remove the compulsory stamp; and the Bill now under the consideration of the Committee was founded on identically the same principle. It was limited to the removal of the practical difficulty that had arisen in the enforcement of the stamp on all newspapers, and the wish of the Government was to
 1666 data, 1667
 MR. GLADSTONE said, he agreed with the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley) that the question of retransmission must be dealt with within certain limits and upon grounds which were already established. The privilege of retransmission had reference to the fixed habits of the community, and to part with it suddenly would be an inconvenience; but the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down was so much enamoured with retransmission that he strongly insisted upon its merits. He proposed to give the London newspaper, in some shape or other, an extraordinary right, which smacked very much of their old friend Protection; but he, for one, thought the superior article ought to stand upon its own merits. But if the hon. Gentleman was so much in favour of retransmission, he ought upon that very ground not to vote for the Amendment, but to support the Bill as it stood, because the Amendment virtually proposed to abolish the privilege of retransmission, while the Bill of the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed to retain it. With respect to the question of price, he agreed with the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn that it ought to rest entirely with the Executive to determine it; but, said the hon. Member who last addressed them, "You have for educational purposes consented to a diminution of the tax, and it is no very great matter if you consent to a further diminution." But that was not the question before the Committee. True, it was agreed on all hands that no profit should be expected from this source of revenue, but the question was not whether the State should be saddled with a perpetual service for the benefit of that portion of the community who printed and who read newspapers. If they did what the Amendment proposed, it would be practically subsidising the transmission of newspapers at the expense of the State, which was bad in principle; but in his opinion it was totally unnecessary. He knew no reason in the world why literature at large might not claim such a pri-
 1669 The Times, 1670 d. data d. d.,
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER said, it was perfectly competent for the Committee to make the alteration which the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Whiteside) proposed; but, if that were done, the object in view must be enforced by penalties, and this measure had been drawn so as to avoid all imposition of penalties. The 7th clause gave the Board of Inland Revenue power to issue stamps, and if any newspaper or periodical desired to enjoy the privilege of transmission by post for 1 d. 1674
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER said, that the hon. and learned Member would observe that the Act to which he referred was limited only to newspapers, and did not apply to all periodicals. Now, the Bill under consideration applied to all periodical publications published within thirty-one days; the hon. and learned Member by his proposal would, however, extend the regulations of this Act to periodical publications not comprised within the original Act. There were a great many publications at a halfpenny and a penny supported by religious societies, which had a large circulation amongst the lower classes; these papers were not transmitted by post, but in monthly parcels, and he did not apprehend that if this Bill passed these publications would seek to avail themselves of the postal privilege, and it would be very hard to bring them under the regulation of a law which was not originally intended to apply to them. By limiting the registration of publications to the cases of those persons who voluntarily sought to avail themselves of the postal privilege the House would apply the Act to all newspapers of importance, and, by the spontaneous operation of the Act, would exempt from it these periodical publications to which it was not intended to apply.
 LORD STANLEY said, that some hon. Members thought that, because they voted for compulsory registration, they therefore voted for security being given in case of libel, but he did not think so, and was of opinion that the securities required were nugatory as a protection, and simply vexatious to those who had to give them. He wished to draw the distinction between unnecessary security and that which was alone contemplated by the Bill, namely, registration, which simply meant that every person issuing a periodical publication should make a declaration, stating the name of the proprietor. There was nothing in this which could be called an annoyance or a hardship, and he was in favour of the compulsory registration, if
 1676
 MR. GLADSTONE said, he was in the unfortunate predicament of disliking both the Proposal of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Amemnent of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Enniskillen. They had opposite characteristics and opposite merits. He admitted that the hon. and learned Gentleman's proposal was, in his opinion, more consistent with the uniformity of principle which that House ought to observe in its proceedings than that of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, but he objected to it because the principle upon which it was founded was a wrong one. The hon. and learned Gentleman required that all periodical publications should be registered, and that certain declarations should be made in regard to them. But what security would be gained by that registration which was not gained by the present law requiring the printer's name to be upon the publication? He had listened in vain for an indication of any such security or practical advantage. It might be true that in cases of libel the publication of the printer's name did not point out the real libeller, but it would be quite as true with respect to any name which might be registered. It appeared to him that the only effect of the Amendment would be to impose unnecessary trouble and vexation upon many persons, and he should therefore say "No" to it. He must also say "No" to the right hon. Gentleman's clause, because it was irrational, and one part of it was not consistent with the other. The present law requiring the registration of all
 1678
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER said, his belief was that the clause would be found practically to work without material inconvenience, and that all those newspapers whose circulation was considerable, and whose influence therefore was felt over a wide circuit of the country, would be drawn into it. He would admit, however, that the effect of the Bill as it was now drawn, while it removed the objection that a false declaration must be made, as now, by persons publishing circulars and periodicals of that kind, and who now enjoyed the benefit of the stamp by making what was, in fact, a false declaration that they published a newspaper —while that would be removed by the Bill as it now stood, at the same time it would introduce another anomaly, namely, that it would subject that class of publications to registration. He had no objection, after the opinions he had heard expressed, if the Committee should prefer it, to postpone the clause relating to registration and securities, and to attempt to limit them to newspapers. The effect of that would be to make this Bill conform more exactly to the object of the original Acts, to except periodical publications generally, and to retain the word "newspaper" in the Bill which it had been an object to omit, on account of the difficulty of putting a precise legal construction upon it. However, he believed, a legal construction could be put upon the word "newspaper," and if the Committee would go on with the remaining clauses, he would consider this clause, and endeavour to give it that effect.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER said, that as the stamp in future would not be compulsory, but voluntary, all estimates with reference to the revenue derivable under the new law were necessarily uncertain. He had stated, however, on Friday night, that the opinion of the Government was that the loss to the revenue if the measure should become law, would be about 200,000 l.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I have the clause with me, and if it be the wish of the Committee I am now prepared to move it. I thought, however, that as some of the clauses have been postponed it might not now be convenient to propose a new clause.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER said, it was quite true the clause did contain a penalty, but that penalty was not to be recovered by the Attorney General, but by the proprietor of a newspaper, for the piracy of any matter contained in his newspaper, and that was a matter for the Committee hereafter to consider. With reference to the observation of the hon. Member (Mr. Barrow) it was his belief that the practice adopted by him was of constant occurrence in that House, and that there was nothing unusual, unprecedented, or exceptional in it. He had given notice of the clause three or four days ago; hon. Members had had an opportunity to consider it, and it had also received circulation amongst the public.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I will fix it for Monday next.
 MR. BENTINCK said, he certainly was not surprised, after the discussion of a former evening, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had thought proper to withdraw his motion. With all respect, however, for the opinion of the Committee, as just enunciated by the hon. and learned Gentleman, he must say he regretted exceedingly that it was not in his power to coincide with it. In making that remark be begged to say that he intended to impugn neither collectively nor individually the conduct of the committee. But having on a former occasion contended—and contended with the concurrence of opinion of at least a large minority in that House—that considering the subjects which were being discussed before the Committee, it was indispensable that at least one Member of it should be connected with the naval profession who might cross-examine closely and efficiently a great number of the witnesses necessarily produced before the Committee—many of whom trying to save their own reputation, would be bent
 1688
 LORD SEYMOUR said, as one of the members of the Committee he rose to state the reasons why he thought there was no necessity for any additional member in the room of the hon. Member for Carlow. They had been inquiring consecutively for a great number of days, they had published a blue book in which there were given 13,000 questions, and they had asked some thousands more questions, and there was a very voluminous appendix. Should any new member be appointed to the Committee, in order to put himself in the same position as the other members it would be but reasonable to require him to go carefully through all those questions and evidence, so as to enable him to go on
 1689
 MR. PACK said, that the House could only judge of the opinion of the Committee on Friday night from the motion which stood in the name of its Chairman, and which proposed the appointment of a new member. He believed that a naval member was wanted on the Committee, and he should therefore support the motion.
 MR. BENTINCK in reply, said, that the noble Lord, in alluding to the remarks he (Mr. Bentinck) had made as to the manner in which the Committee had been formed, seemed to forget that be had distinctly stated that, however the custom of the House might apply with advantage under ordinary circumstances, he considered that the circumstances under which this Committee was appointed were so exceptional, that what might be a good rule in other cases might, in this instance, be objectionable. The noble Lord had stated that he was quite indifferent whether the hon. and gallant Member whose name had been proposed was appointed a member of the Committee or not. The greater part of the inquiry respecting the transport service was yet to take place, and, therefore, the necessity for a naval officer on the Committee was as great as at the commencement.
 MR. F. SCOTT said, he hoped that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, while he took time to consider the amendment proposed, would not be guided by the remarks which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He confessed that, notwithstanding what the right hon. Gentleman had said about the year 1855 being somewhat too late a period to enter upon the question of securities in connection with the press, it did not appear at all too late to him. He believed that the press would consult its own liberty and its own dignity if it encouraged any act of legislation which should require the registration of the names of those persons who were really responsible for that which was inserted in the journals. There was nothing more objectionable than that a party should be brought forward to be prosecuted for a libel in the press who was not the party really guilty either of writing or of publishing that libel. He thought it would be very much more for the dignity of the press, as well as for the interest of the public, that those who were really responsible should be those whose names should be required by law to be registered.
 MR. LIDDELL said, he agreed with the noble Lord (Lord Seymour) that this inquiry ought to be brought to a close as speedily as possible. However, the great reason adduced for making no further additions to the Committee was that the new member or members could not have been expected to have made themselves masters of all the evidence. Now he begged to remind the House that that was an argument which might have held quite as good on Friday night, when there was the question of the appointment of the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. de Vere). It seemed that there had been a kind of agreement in this matter between the Chairman of the Committee and the noble Lord at the head of the Government. He had hitherto considered the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) as an independent Member, but after the proceedings of that night he must confess that his faith in him was
 1690
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT said, he begged to ask a question of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the War Department, but before doing so it was necessary that he should say a few words in explanation. When the civil hospital was established at Smyrna, great doubts were expressed as to the salubrity of the climate. At that time, however, there was a great pressure for room, and a barrack was offered to the Government by the Turkish Government for hospital
 1626
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM said, he begged to ask the First Lord of the Treasury whether Sir Charles Eastlake has been appointed director of the National Gallery, and Mr. Wornum secretary; and whether Sir Charles Eastlake has been appointed for five years, or for life?
 MR. LAYARD said, he desired to know whether accounts had been received that fever had already broken out in the lower wards of the hospital at Smyrna, and that
 1627
 MR. DISRAELI saw that a notice had been given on the part of the Government of certain clauses of a most important character, namely, in reference to newspaper copyright. Now those clauses had not as yet been brought up, neither had any statement been made respecting them by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He wished, therefore, to know whether it was intended to proceed with them?
 MR. DISRAELI said, he would not attempt to answer the right hon. Gentleman's objections to the proposal of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, but he thought that the Amendment of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Whiteside) was both rational and consistent. Let them see what was the principle involved in that Amendment, and what were the difficulties in the way of its application to practice. The press enjoyed a very great liberty and exercised a very great power; he did not grudge it that liberty and that power, but they had a right to exact from it the responsibility which ought to be the condition upon which all power should be exercised. Now, what was the proposition of his hon. and learned Friend? His hon and learned Friend proposed that the
 1679 1680
 MR. DISRAELI said, he entirely agreed with the noble Lord in the observations
 1692 1693 1694 1695 1696
 MR. COWAN said, he wished to explain that it was not competent for him to propose his Amendment before Mr. Speaker left the Chair. It was his wish, if possible, to have elicited some expression of opinion from the Government favourable to his views, but he had not yet succeeded in doing so. He knew that there were great difficulties in carrying out a measure like this, in connection with the Post Office, and he should be unwilling to take any course by which the Post Office would be forced to adopt a measure which would cause inconvenience. He still hoped to hear some assurance from the Government that they entertained a favourable opinion of his proposal. In the meantime he would support the Amendment of his hon. and learned Friend.
 MR. COWAN said, he had given notice of his intention to move certain clauses and amendments, with the view of repealing the restrictions and limitations with respect to the number of sheets of paper, and the dimensions of the letter-press, whether of newspapers or periodical publications, imposed by the Acts now in force; and, also, for providing for the conveyance through the Post Office not only of newspapers, but of all printed matter, at the rate of one halfpenny for each transmission for every two ounces or portion of two ounces carried, or at such rates as would duly remunerate the Post Office for the service performed. It would perhaps be convenient to the House, therefore, if he took that opportunity of explaining the nature of the amendments he proposed to submit to the Committee. He had been fur many years connected, in the way of business, with the newspaper press, and had supplied many newspaper proprietors with paper and with stamped sheets. He had considered it his duty to vote for the
 1659 l. d. d., d. d., 1660 d., d. d.,
 MR. E. BALL said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down was one of the strenuous advocates of free trade, and was so enamoured of that beautiful theory that he was willing to sacrifice his interest of from 2,000 l. l. l.
 MR. CARDWELL said, that he had heard with some surprise the remarks of the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. T. Hankey), for if two things were perfectly distinct they were these: one for the House of Commons to do a thing at a particular time, and the other for them to enter into vague paper promises which they themselves had no power to perform. Besides, the case referred to by the hon. Member was otherwise different from the present loan. When the Exchequer Bonds were issued, the condition for repayment within a certain period was a stipulation entered into with the lenders—it was part of the contract, and was not therefore likely to be broken. The taxes, therefore, imposed to meet it were sure to be maintained. But what the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Goulburn) contended was, that this clause would not constitute any obligation on the public; that it would merely act as an opiate, inducing them to believe that this was a mere temporary loan, and that provision had been made for its repayment in time of peace, although at the same time we knew that, except in the formal words of an Act of Parliament, no such provision had been made, because it was not in our power to make any. The hon. Member for the Wick Burghs (Mr. Laing) said that the borrowing of money on terminable annuities was a question of price. No doubt it was. And it Was the duty of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to pursue the requisite Calculations on Matters of price, and to take care that the loan was negotiated on as favourable terms for the public as possible. He believed that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had done so on the present occasion, and that the present loan was negotiated in a manner highly advantageous to the public. As to the
 1644
 MR. WARNER said, he thought it was admitted that there was something wrong in the present system of registration; but this, in his opinion, would be rendered much worse by the present clause. Some such amendment as that proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Enniskillen (Mr. Whiteside) was called for; but he could not agree with the hon. and learned Member as to the propriety of enforcing registration by the cumbrous machinery referred to.
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER said, he understood that his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer bad said that
 1685
 MR. G. BUTT said, that at present all newspapers must be registered, and give security to answer for libels; but the effect of the present Bill would be to enable parties to publish newspapers without availing themselves of the postal regulations, and then they would not be under the necessity of registering and finding security.
 MR. G. BUTT said, that this Bill would release from the operation of the existing law of registration such publications as did not choose to avail themselves of the postal regulation. It would also sweep away another valuable protection provided by the existing law, which required securities to be given by responsible persons, so that persons who might have to bring actions for slander against newspaper proprietors might not find that they had been proceeding against mere "men of straw." The Chancellor of the Exchequer said that the respectable papers would apply to be stamped, and thus become subject to these wholesome conditions; but he should remember that there was no necessary connection between a mere postal regulation and the registration of publications; and the existing law treated the two things, which rested upon entirely different grounds, as perfectly distinct. The fear of mischief from libellous publications was not so slight as the right hon. Gentleman would have them believe because it might suit the interest of persons to circulate them in large towns, where they would not care for postal privileges. On what principle, then, could they maintain the existing law against the respectable newspapers, which would least require the check it imposed, while the less respectable class of publications, which would most need the restraint of such a law, would be
 1675
 MR. MACARTNEY seconded the motion.
 MR. DRUMMOND said, he would admit that the argument was equally good on Friday night against the accession of a new member, but it was not the Committee that moved for that accession. The argument of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Liddell) therefore went against himself. The Committee never asked for the appointment of another member [Mr. LIDDELL: The Government did.] If the hon. Gentleman thought that he had gone into that Committee with a foregone conclusion of drawing up a bill of indictment against the Government, he had mistaken his man. More factious and dishonourable motives could not be imputed to any man than to say that they had been packed, or that it was intended to pack them, not for the purpose of investigating the truth, but for the purpose of trying a foregone conclusion. Every member who was old enough have cut his wisdom teeth in that House must be perfectly well aware that no Committee was ever formed without consulting the heads of parties. With regard to the necessity of a naval officer being on the Committee, he did not see the necessity for it, as all the Committee had to inquire into was to ascertain if the naval officers obeyed their orders. At the present stage of the proceedings he certainly thought it would be rather a disadvantage to appoint a new member on the Committee. It was clear that if they were to have a Gentleman on the Committee who knew nothing and who had not read these 14,300 questions which had been asked, the report of the Committee must be delayed a considerable time.
 MR. DRUMMOND : Sir, it is said that the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Enniskillen will catch some newspapers that do not want to be caught, and others it is not wanted to catch. Sir, I know a newspaper which wanted to be caught. The right hon. Gentleman who has just resumed his seat has spoken of the "liberty of the press." That has been long spoken of. It has been said that it must be "free as the air we breathe; take it away, we die." But, Sir, what is "the liberty of the press?" It is the liberty of a certain number of persons to slander anonymously whomever they please, against whom you have no redress. It is freedom to the anonymous libeller, and slavery to all the rest. The only way to meet this is to prohibit any person from publishing anything anonymously, periodically, or otherwise. Sir, no honest man is ashamed of the sentiments he expresses. You talk in this country, more than in any other, of your "love of fair play," "meeting a man face to face, and a good standup fight," &c. Why, where is the fair play of these anonymous libellers? You have—you know it well—a fear of moral assassination. You long to punish the evil-doers, and you are afraid to do so. You know that the only way to do it effectually is to force them to give their names as they do in France. Two years ago it was very much the fashion of Gentlemen on this side to speak of France as a great model. Well, let us imitate France, at all events, in this respect. They have found out a way in France to prevent persons from publishing without putting their names to what they publish. And the law advisers of the Crown could, with a very little exercise of ingenuity, I apprehend, devise a way of securing the same object in this country. As it is,
 1681
 MR. GOULBURN said, he hoped as he had been unable to attend on the evening when the Budget was brought forward, that the House would excuse him for now offering some observations on the course taken by his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer with reference to
 1630 l. l. 1631 l. l. l. l.; 1632 1633
 MR. WHITESIDE said, he had to complain of the phraseology adopted in the Resolution, and which in fact involved a species of great injustice to a large body of persons connected with the spirit trade in Ireland. The words of the Resolution were that—
 "Every gallon of spirits of the strength of hydrometer proof, which on or after the 20th day of April, 1855, shall be distilled in Scotland and Ireland respectively, or be in the stock, custody, or possession of any distiller, rectifier, or compounder of, or dealer in, spirits in Scotland or Ireland"
 MR. WHITESIDE said, that no difficulty as to machinery to enforce registration would arise, as under the Act of the 6 & 7  Wm. 1677
 MR. WHITESIDE said, he would beg to move, as an Amendment, that the following words should be inserted in the clause—
 "And be it enacted that, after the publishing of this Act, the proprietors of every newspaper or periodical publication shall make and deliver," &c.
 MR. WHITESIDE said, he had prepared a proviso to be added to the clause, if the Committee thought fit, requiring all newspapers, though unstamped, to register and give security under a penalty of 20 l.
 MR. WHITESIDE said, that by Clause 2 of the Bill they subjected periodicals to the same regulations as newspapers, and by Clause 3 those periodicals would be entitled to transmission by post. Clause 4 provided that newspapers should be registered. There was, however, some doubt whether Clauses 4, 5, and 6, were obligatory or not upon all newspapers. If they were not, this inconsistency would exist—that whereas periodical publications would be assimilated to newspapers, and stamped newspapers must register and give security under 6 & 7  Will. 1673
 MR. WHITESIDE said, the right hon. Baronet who had last addressed them appeared offended because his (Mr. Whiteside's) right hon. Friend (Mr. Disraeli) had spoken his mind plainly on the subject, the importance of which no one could deny. They all knew that the noble Lord at the head of the Government struggled with the greatest ability against the appointment of the Committee itself, afterwards that he took an active part in the choice of the members, rejecting some and suggesting others; and yet the House were to be told that it was quite constitutional for a Minister to create a number of placemen, and reduce the Committee by taking away its members. The same principle might induce him to take away two, three, or four. The noble Lord had prevented the hon. Member for Carlow (Mr. J. Ball) from hearing the whole of the evidence and giving a judgment on it, and now he said no other member should be appointed on the Committee, because he would not have heard that evidence. He (Mr. Whiteside) always listened to the noble Lord with admiration, but sometimes with regret. The noble Lord had opposed the appointment of the hon. and gallant officer (Captain Scobell) because he thought it
 1698
 MR. WILSON said, that all the accounts relating to the expenditure for the
 1653
 MR. WILSON said, with respect to the complaints of the hon. and gallant member for St. Ives (Captain Laffan) who appeared as the advocate of Mauritius, he had complained rather of the absence of labour than of the condition of the island. With respect to the sugar colonies in general, perhaps there was no British interest which exhibited a more marked example of rapid
 1657 s.
 MR. J. BALL said, it was true that the immigration into the Mauritius, as well as into other Colonies, of a large number of men, increasing enormously the male population, had engaged the attention of successive Colonial Ministers, and it was therefore deemed highly essential that effectual steps should be taken to procure an approximate proportion between the two sexes in those Colonies. In the month of June last, therefore, a letter on the subject had been addressed to the Governors of the more important Colonies, in which, however, there was not one word indicative of an intention to put an end abruptly to the introduction of coolies. No instructions were given by the Colonial Office to the emigration agents in India, but the Emigration Commissioners in this country, to whom the views of the Duke of Newcastle were made known, informed those gentlemen that it was essential that a considerable proportion of women should emigrate along with the men. From the tenor of these instructions he could not think that any officer had taken upon himself arbitrarily to put a stop to the emigration from India to the Mauritius, because there was nothing whatever in those instructions which distinguished the case of the Mauritius from other Colonies. He could assure his hon. and gallant Friend that it was the intention of the Government to forward precise instructions by the mail about to leave, and if any misconception had existed it would be removed. At the same time, the noble Lord now Secretary for the Colonies concurred entirely with those who had preceded him in thinking that immediate and effective steps should be taken to increase the female population of the sugar colonies.
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, the importance of the question which I am about to put to the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government will be a sufficient apology for my putting it without having given previous notice. I wish to know whether the House can be informed or is to understand that the noble Lord the Member for the City of London has left Vienna, and if the conferences and negotiations are considered by the Government to be at an end? If that be so, I wish also to ask whether the noble Lord can inform the House on what day he will make a specific statement, or afford to the House documentary information, whereby we may be enabled to ascertain precisely what is the difference between the terms offered by the allies, and any terms that may have been offered as counter propositions by the Russian Government, in order that the House and the country may precisely understand, if the war is to be prolonged, what is to be the object of the war in future? As I have not been enabled to find persons agreeing as to why the war began at all, I am the more anxious that we should know exactly how we stand, apart from the obscurity of diplomatic language, and I therefore beg to inquire of the noble Lord if he can give the House, at an early period, the specific information for which I ask?
 MR. BRIGHT said, he wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman when he intended to go into Committee again on this Bill? There were some hundreds of persons in a state of agony with regard to the Bill. The proprietors of existing newspapers did not know where they would be next week, and there were other newspapers struggling into life. Great expenses were incurred, and a most important branch of industry would be paralyzed until this Bill should be disposed of.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer ought to have thrown the loan open to public competition, and he considered that the right hon. gentleman might have raised 20,000,000 l. l. l.
 MR. JAMES MACGREGOR said, that the hon. Member for the Wick Burghs (Mr. Laing) had quoted as a parallel to this loan the raising of a large sum of money on the French railways, upon which 100,000,000 l. amortissement l. l.
 MR. MAGUIRE said, he thought the country would have some difficulty in understanding why it was that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Chairman of the Committee came down on Friday ready to sanction the prospective appointment of the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. de Vere) as a member of the Committee, while he stated to-night that the Committee were averse to the addition of any new member. He thought the country would be unable to understand the indifference of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) on this subject to-night, and his great anxiety on Friday night to have Ireland represented on the Committee. If the Government were ready now to assent to the appointment of a naval officer upon the Committee, how was it that they so strenuously resisted such an appointment on Friday? The noble Lord's anxiety to have an Irishman on the Committee seemed to have entirely evaporated, and, with his characteristic jauntiness, he expressed his perfect indifference whether Ireland was represented on the Committee or not. The Committee had yet to inquire into very important matters. They had not only to ascertain what was the condition of our army in January, but what was its condition at the present time; what the new Whig Ministers had effected for its improvement; what had been done by Lord Panmure to increase the number of bayonets, the force of cavalry, or the
 1700
 MR. PHILIPPS said, he hoped the Committees would not consent to try any experiments with the Post Office until they had before them a complete and clear balance-sheet of the profit and loss of the Post Office service. It was stated that the gain in this department was, for the last year, 16,538 l.; l. l.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE said, he did not rise to criticise the budget, but only to express his deep regret that there should be a necessity for proposing a duty on sugar, which he believed would have a pernicious effect on the happiness and comfort of the lower classes, He did not mean to deny the existence of the necessity, for he had the greatest confidence in the talents of the right bon. gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but he must express his regret at a necessity which, in a moral point of view, would have most unfavourable results.
 MR. ROEBUCK said, that his name appeared on the paper appended to a notice that the hon. Member for the county of Limerick (Mr. de Vere) be added to
 1687
 MR. ROEBUCK said, that, as some imputations had been thrown upon him, he hoped he might be allowed to trouble the House with a very short explanation. Although he might subject himself to further imputations by the statement he was about to make, he thought it due to the noble Lord at the head of the Government to say, that he hail nothing whatever to do with the recommendation of the Committee. That recommendation was made, if he recollected rightly, by the right hon. Member for Droitwich (Sir J. Pakington); and when the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) came down to the House that evening, he (Mr. Roebuck) communicated to him the opinion of the Committee. The violent harangues of hon. and right hon. Gentlemen opposite were, therefore, altogether unfounded, for he had never consulted with the noble Lord on the subject. The right hon. Member for Droitwich had proposed that he (Mr. Roebuck) should be
 1699
 MR. ROEBUCK rose, and said, he had no wish to divide the House.
 MR. HEYWORTH said, he must complain of the policy of indirect taxation, because if the demand for manufactures was restricted abroad, the means of paying the taxes in this country would be diminished. He agreed that the addition of one per cent. to the income tax, which would produce the amount, would be preferable to this proposition, and he trusted that the House would not sanction the absurdity of resorting to a principle which had over and over again been condemned. agreed to,
 MR. BLACKBURN said, he had the misfortune, like the hon. Gentleman below him (Mr. Pollard-Urquhart), to be a West Indian proprietor, and, notwithstanding all the efforts he had made to improve his property, he had found it gradually becoming less valuable since the alterations in the policy of the Government had been carried into effect. It was quite evident that the increase in the duties now proposed would chiefly fall upon the producer, and he could not believe that it would amount to less than l s. l. l. 1658 l.
 MR. MONCKT ON MILNES said, he trusted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, since he admitted the principle of diminishing the revenue for an educational purpose, would consent to diminish it a little more, if necessary, for the purpose of obtaining the educational advantages likely to result from the proposed amendment. Great weight was due to the argument of the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth (Mr. Collier) that the retransmission through the post of the London newspapers, conducted, as they were, with such great ability and containing matter of such great educational importance, should be in every way encouraged. He believed that the law of the United States at the present moment established a differential postage on the transmission of newspapers within certain limits, and the result was that the transmission over the United States of newspapers, conducted with very great ability and at great expense, was prevented, and encouragement to an infinite extent was given to smaller and less carefully conducted newspapers. It was a singular fact that the great agitation on this matter came from the proprietors of provincial newspapers, who thought that they would be benefited by the proposed amendment, and there could be no doubt that the great London newspapers would also be benefited by it. He believed that the advantage of the transmission of such a newspaper as  The Times 1668
 MR. COLLIER said, that the Amendment of which his hon. Friend the Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Cowan) had given notice having been withdrawn, he would venture to suggest some alterations in this clause, which he thought would embody the propositions of his hon. Friend. He would therefore propose that, instead of a stamp of a penny, which was imposed by this clause as the charge for postal conveyance, a halfpenny stamp should be substituted, and that such stamp should be imposed for each transmission by post, which he thought would be the fair and equitable manner of settling this question. He did not put this proposition entirely upon financial grounds, but upon the higher considerations of the duty they owed to the country to promote the cause of education, and it was therefore of the greatest possible importance that the best class of newspapers should be allowed the greatest possible facilities for circulation. Any tax restricting the transmission of knowledge was essentially a tax upon knowledge itself, and therefore it was with some confidence that he expected the support of those who had so long agitated for the repeal of the taxes on knowledge, in favour of his proposition fur the reduction of the tax upon
 1662 The Times 1663 The Times Leeds Mercury,
 CAPTAIN LAFFAN said, that recently very considerable additions had been made to the duties on sugar in the British possessions, and at the same time very considerable remissions were made to slavegrown sugar. The present addition to the sugar duties was regarded in the Colonies generally as an injustice. The Mauritius, the Colony with which he was best acquainted, was dependent for its prosperity, and, indeed for its very existence, upon having a full supply of free labour from India. It was at first extremely difficult to persuade single men to come from India with the view of realising a competence with which to return to their own country. The agents of the Government in India acting upon, or misinterpreting, instructions received from home, made and enforced a regulation that every Indian leaving India should be accompanied by a woman, which was equivalent to stopping the supply of labour and destroying the production of sugar at Mauritius. Representations were made on the subject to Her Majesty's Government, who proceeded to consider the question, but they were taking so long a time to arrive at a determination that while the matter was being Settled the Colony was being ruined. The Government wished, as every one did, to create an approximation between the two sexes, ut he had no idea that they wished to
 1655
 MR. LAING said, he rose to correct the misapprehension into which the hon. Member for Huntingdon (Mr. T. Baring) had fallen in respect to the argument which he had used on Friday night. He did not on that occasion contend that this loan should have been raised by terminable annuities only. The great object which he had then urged against the Chancellor of the Exchequer's scheme was founded on the creation of so large an amount of debt in the ordinary 3 per cent. Consolidated Stock, and he had simply represented that it would have been possible for the right hon. Gentleman to have raised an equally large amount either by a system of terminable annuities, or by the creation of stock at the market rate of interest which the Government credit would have commanded at the time, viz., at 3½ per cent. Another very serious objection which he felt to the right hon. Gentleman's proposition was, that as the Three per cents were, to a great degree, the barometer which regulated the state of our national credit, owing to there being always a large amount of trust and other moneys of the same description ready to be invested in them, the result of adding so largely to this description of stock would be to make the other securities range at a lower rate than they otherwise would do. Had not the price of Consols been unnecessarily depressed by the sale of savings' bank stock, and had the loan been proposed in some other description of stock, Consols would, he had every reason to believe, have stood some 3 per cent. higher than they did at the present time. But a fall of one per cent. in the price of
 1641 l. l., l., l.
 MR. T. BARING said, he had heard with very great astonishment the objection which had been taken by the right hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat, to one part of the scheme of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. If there was one Member in that House on whom he thought he could have relied more than on another for the maintenance of the principle of repaying what we had borrowed, that Member would have been the right hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House. To his surprise, however, he found that the right hon. Gentleman opposed the clause for applying 1,000,000 l. 1634 l. 1635 s. d. l. l. 1636
 MR. T. BARING said, he could assure the right hon. Gentleman that he had only intended to say that the effect, and not the object, of the right hon. Gentleman's suggestion would be that which he had described.
 MR. T. BARING said, he thought that the adoption of the first suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) would entirely frustrate the object of the Resolution. There was a great variety of Government securities, and the alteration suggested by the right hon. Gentleman would enable the Chancellor of the Exchequer to buy up the Exchequer bonds of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) when they fell due, or to buy up Exchequer bills if it were convenient to the Government of the day to take 1,000,000 l. l.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON said, he apprehended that the proposition to which the Committee was now asked by the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth to accede to was, that the State should undertake to carry periodical publications of any size or any weight for a halfpenny.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON said, that was not the proposition. As he understood the Amendment, the Post Office was to be required to carry all newspapers or periodical publications without limitation of size or weight. [Mr. COLLIER said, that would be a matter for future consideration.] A periodical publication was to be carried for a halfpenny, whatever its weight, but a pamphlet would have to be weighed like a letter, and to contribute probably 3 d., d., d. d. d. d., 1672
 MR. MILNER GIBSON said, he would ask the hon. and learned Member by what machinery he proposed to carry into effect his proposition that every person who published a periodical should register it? They would be obliged, if his Amendment became law, to have officers to go round the country to compel publishers to register. He did not think it would bp possible to enforce a general registration without having new machinery, which would be of a vexatious and troublesome character. He believed that registration under the existing Act was entirely neglected, and that if even stamped newspapers were required to comply with all the provisions of the clause requiring registration, the Board of Inland Revenue would have little else to do. He was in favour of tracing authorship, and of bringing home to every responsible person the publication of a calumny, but there was at present a law in force which effected this, as it required that to every paper should be affixed the place of abode and name of the printer, who was obliged, under the Act, to keep a record of his employers, and this he was compelled to produce under order of a justice of the peace. They therefore, he considered, had a sufficient remedy for the evil apprehended, and this attempt to enforce registration was consequently unnecessary.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON said, he hoped in the year 1855, it would not be thought necessary for the safety of our institutions and of private character to put restraints upon the publication of opinion. Both with respect to suretyship and registration the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer might save himself trouble by enforcing the law as it now stood. The Act of Parliament was passed by the late Lord Castlereagh, and was called one of the Six Acts. The preamble stated that—
 "Whereas many papers containing observations upon Public Acts tending to excite the hatred of the public to the constitution of this realm, and also vilifying our holy religion, have lately been published in great numbers, and at a very small price, and it is expedient that the same should be restrained." 1682 d. l. l. l. Geo. Geo. Geo. l. 1683 "Whereas a traitorous conspiracy had long been carried on by persons in this country in conjunction with persons abroad for the purpose of exciting the people and Government of France to overthrow the constitution and Government and everything both civil and ecclesiastical existing in Great Britain and Ireland, be it therefore enacted," &c.: d. 1684 l.
 MR. HORSFALL said, he begged to ask the First Lord of the Treasury whether Her Majesty's Government was aware of the fact of the Venezuelan Government, or persons in the name of that Government, having taken possession of the Island of Ayes, which was surveyed by the British Government in 1849; and if so, whether it is intended to take any measures for the recovery of the island, and for the preservation to this country of the supply of guano which abounds there?
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY said, he had heard with much astonishment the objection stated by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone) to that House, pledging itself to the redemption, at a future time, of the loan now to be raised. Why, that was precisely the same course which that right hon. Gentleman himself pursued last year when he raised a certain sum upon Exchequer Bonds, and asked the House to agree to a certain amount of taxation to afford him the means at a subsequent period of redeeming those bonds. Thus the House was involved in a pledge to maintain a certain amount of taxation to enable it to fulfil the engagement into which it had entered; and it was no more than what the present Chancellor of the Exchequer asked them to do in regard to the repayment of this loan. He quite agreed with the hon. Member for Huntingdon (Mr. T. Baring) in thinking that although no doubt a future house of Commons might reverse the decision to which they came on the present occasion, yet that it was not inconsistent with their duty to give the best pledge in their power for the honesty of their intention, when peace should happily be restored, to maintain such an amount of taxation as would admit
 1643
 MR. BARROW : The right hon. Gen-
 1671
 MR. BARROW said, he did not think it was likely that the Post Office would lose by the transmission of newspapers at a halfpenny, for he was informed that in America a newspaper could travel 3,000 miles for one cent, and certainly they were not the people in America to allow the Post Office to be worked at a loss. The difficulty anticipated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer as to the retransmission would be easily obviated by requiring that the direction should be written across the stamp, or that it should be obliterated in the same way as letter stamps now were; and that when the newspaper was transmitted a second time, a second stamp should be affixed, to be obliterated in like manner, and that, in the absence of such second stamp, a retransmitted newspaper should be charged 1 d.
 MR. BARROW said, he regretted extremely to find that the Government did not accede to the substitution of a halfpenny stamp in return for the privilege of passing newspapers through the Post Office. In his opinion, this was a most serious question, affecting, as it did, the educated classes of the country, to whom the reading of the current news had become a necessity. The hardship inflicted by the Bill in its present state would fall more particularly upon constituencies such as he represented, and would scarcely be felt in large towns, to which unstamped papers would be brought by railways. But it would operate most unfairly to the proprietors of newspapers published in country districts which must depend mainly
 1661
 MR. BARROW said, that he did not receive the clause with his Votes, and he did not know any Member who had so received it.
 MR. BARROW said, he had understood that the present Bill was not to involve
 1686
 MR. FAGAN  said, he was quite satisfied with the assurance the right hon. Gentleman had just given.
 MR. FAGAN said, he must, though with great respect, beg to deny the statement made by the right hon. Gentleman, that the present Resolution was prepared in similar words to those used in the Resolution of last year. The Resolution of last year did not contain the words "rectifier or compounder of, or dealer in spirits." He was aware that the additional tax was made to apply to the stock in the hands of the distiller, but it was not just to the stock in the hands of the
 1654
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART said, that, as a West India Proprietor who had suffered long in silence, he trusted that he might be allowed to protest in a few words against the injustice with which the West India Colonies had been treated. They had been told that in 1854 they would know the worst, and they had made their arrangements in the hope that no further prejudicial measures would be taken against them. In the very first year afterwards extra duties were imposed upon their produce—duties which, in his opinion, would
 1656 l. l. l.
 CAPTAIN STUART said, he begged to ask the hon. Under Secretary for War whether the last detachment of Guards, 1,000 strong, left London on the 12th April with the clothes of 1854, the new clothing due on the 1st April, 1855, not having been issued; whether the allowance made to the men for wearing their own clothes will be borne by the contractors or by the Government, from the 1st April to the date of issuing the new clothing of 1855; and whether any steps have been taken to provide the Guards with clothing suitable to the Crimean summer, the issue of white trousers having been lately discontinued?
 MR. WILKINSON said, he doubted the wisdom of the House now entering into a pledge to be fulfilled hereafter, when the circumstances of the country might be altered in a manner which it was Utterly impossible for anybody now to foresee. With regard to the creation of a 3½ per cent. stock, as suggested by the hon. Member for Wick (Mr. Laing), that course, in the present state of monetary affairs, would not, he considered, have been expedient.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS said, he wished to know whether the Estimate of 86,000,000 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS said, that notwithstanding the reply of the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), it was his belief that the 86,000,000 l. l., l.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL said, he must beg to sate in reply, that Dr. Meyer had removed all the patients from the ground floor of the hospital, and moved them to the first or second floor. Perhaps the question would be best answered by reading an extract from the letter of Dr. Meyer, dated the 7th of April. In that letter he made the following statement:—
 "The general state of those in hospital is improving daily. The number of fever cases is diminishing, also the number of deaths, there having been only two last week. The orderlies have hitherto been sleeping in the sick wards, and many have in consequence been attacked with fever; they are now being moved into rooms appropriated to the attendants on the ground floor, so that I confidently expect that this evil will be diminished. I have no misgivings with regard to the climate; if not over-crowded, the sick would do well here."
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL said, he had seen a letter from Dr. Meyer, the head of the civil hospital at Smyrna, written on the 14th of this month, in which he stated that he had reduced the number of patients accommodated in the hospital buildings to 480 or 490. He added that the medical staff under him was capable of treating double that number of sick, and he therefore submitted that the Government should increase the number of sick to 1,000 or 1,200, and that that should be done, not by disusing the hospital building, but by erecting wooden huts in an open space adjoining the building. He (Mr. Peel) could not find that any huts had been sent out from this country for erection at Smyrna; some were on their way to be erected near Constantinople, but, with the application from Dr. Meyer before them, he thought a number of huts should be sent out, so as to enable him to increase the number of patients to the amount specified, namely, 1,000 or 1,200. So far as Dr. Meyer's report went, the hospital appeared to have been progressing very favourably, and in a private letter, received that day, he stated that the average statistical results were quite as good as in any other hospital in the East.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL said, he thought the question of the hon. and gallant Gentleman had been put from the want of information as to the regulations that were observed by the Guards with respect to the wearing of their clothing. In the case of regiments of the line, when an issue of clothing was made, the clothing of the preceding year was discontinued, but, in the case of the Guards, it was usual for them to have two suits of clothing in use, the suit last issued being reserved for Sundays, parades, and reviews, while clothing issued to them for the preceding year was worn on all ordinary occasions. The detachment referred to consequently had in wear, at the time of their departure, the clothing issued for 1854, and it would be against the regulations if they were to take into use, on leaving London, the new clothing of the present
 1624
 SIR GEORGE GREY said, he thought that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire might have spared upon this occasion much of his vehement rhetoric. The right hon. Gentleman, referring to the answer given by his noble Friend (Viscount Palmerston) to the hon. Member for West Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck), had, after fairly stating the principles upon which a Committee ought to be constituted, endeavoured, by misrepresentation, to lead the House and the public to suppose that his noble Friend had spoken with levity of the Committee and expressed his indifference to its composition. He (Sir G. Grey) could only say that nothing could be further from the truth. His noble Friend, in speaking with reference to the particular vacancy occasioned by the appointment of his hon. Friend the Under-Secretary of the Colonies, had, in answer to the reproach cast on the Government by the hon. Member for West Norfolk, that he had entered into a compact with the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield to conceal something that ought to be inquired into, said that he was perfectly indifferent to the Committee in that sense, and that his only wish was that it should be conducted in the manner which would best attain its object. But the right hon. Gentleman, not satisfied with sneering at the noble Lord, attacked the Committee itself, and denounced it as unparliamentary, because, in a unanimous
 1697
 SIR GEORGE TYLER said, he had seen in  The Times
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY said, the noble Lord had not answered the question of the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), with respect to any counter propositions which might have been made by Russia.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY said, he thought the loan was on the whole a fair transaction, but he considered that the margin of 5,250,000 l., l. l.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY said, he wished to know what was expected to be the loss to the revenue in case this Bill should pass? He made out that the stamp duty on newspapers produced at present about 470,000 l.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON said, he wished to say a few words in consequence of the way in which the hon. Gentleman the Member for West Norfolk (Mr. Ben-
 1691
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON said, if the Chairman of the Committee had no objection to the Motion, he had none either. Thus far he was ready to show the extent of his indifference.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I have to state that Russia made no counter proposition.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the subject referred to by the hon. Gentleman is of too great and deep importance for me to shrink from some explanation even at the present moment, though, as to what may be the time at which Her Majesty's Government may think fit to give more detailed information, or to lay any papers upon the table, I am not now in a position to state. It is well known to the House that the English and French Governments in concert with the Government of Austria, had determined that the proper development of the third point, which regarded the treaties of 1840 and 1841, with respect to the Straits of the Dardanelles and the Bosphorus, should be, among other things, that the preponderance of Russia in the
 1629 sine die,
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON said, that in the year 1849 some officers in the British service examined the island in question, and had reason to think that there was a supply of guano upon it, but it was doubtful. In December last, Her Majesty's Government was informed that some Americans had ascertained that there was guano on the island, and that some arrangement had been entered into between these American adventurers and the Government of Venezuela, granting and securing to that American undertaking the exclusive right to take guano for a certain number of years. A question arose as to whether this island could be claimed by Great Britain, as having been an unoccupied island, and whether England, by right of first occupation, could claim sovereignty over it. On consulting the Law Officers of the Crown, it appeared from the statement of facts that Great Britain could not properly assert any claim of sovereignty over that island; but as soon as that was ascertained, instructions were sent to the British consul at Caraccas to require from the Government of Venezuela that British subjects should have the same privileges and facilities for obtaining guano from that island as should be afforded to the subjects of any other country.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : No appointments have as yet taken place with respect to any of the offices to which the noble Lord has referred. The whole arrangement is still under consideration.
 CAPTAIN LEICESTER VERNON said, he would beg to ask the hon. Gentleman the Clerk of the Ordnance whether the building for the Lancaster shot manufactory at Woolwich was erected by Messrs. Fox and Henderson without the supervision of an officer of the Royal Engineer department; and, if so, what was the reason for adopting such a course? also, whether that work has been performed, in respect to construction and materials, to the entire satisfaction of the Ordnance, and whether an officer of the Royal Engineer department has been directed to examine and report upon the same?
 MR. VERNON SMITH : Sir, I have to inform the right hon. Gentleman that no official intelligence has been received concerning the transaction mentioned by him. All the information the Government have on the subject is that which is known to him and to the country through the public press—namely, that, in order to raise money for the purpose of defraying the expenses of public works, a loan was opened at 5 per cent. Of course the right hon. Gentleman is aware that the Governor General of India has the power to open a loan whenever he pleases, without consultation with the Court of Directors or the
 1731
 MR. GLADSTONE said, the declaration which his noble Friend had just made was, it appeared to him, quite fair and satisfactory, but he went beyond his noble Friend in this respect, that he was disposed to urge upon his hon. Friend the Member for North Lancashire, the expediency of amending his Motion forthwith, because he thought it was neither convenient nor satisfactory that the House should go into Committee upon a matter affecting the Act of Uniformity, not on the proposition of the Government, but upon that of a private Member, in order to allow a Bill to be brought in and read a first and
 1735 1736
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL said,
 1741 1742
 LORD JOHN MANNERS said, he thought the most important portion of the Motion of the hon. Member (Mr. Heywood) referred to the endowed grammar and public schools, and that the House ought not, without careful and mature consideration, to proceed to legislate upon a subject of so much importance. The hon. Gentleman must be aware that, in order to open these schools to Dissenters, the trusts of the endowments would have to be, not qualified or altered merely, but entirely subverted. He therefore asked whether, on the present occasion, the House would sanction a proposal which must necessarily have so gigantic an effect? He trusted the hon. Gentleman would listen to the advice which had been tendered to him, and would consent to alter the terms of his Motion in such a manner as would have the effect of removing those merely obsolete enactments to which the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government had referred.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT said, after what had fallen from the hon. and learned Attorney General he would not press his Motion. withdrawn.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT said, that, in bringing forward the Motion of which he had given notice, he had no intention of making an attack on any official, but merely wished to bring before the country the principles of conduct adopted in certain offices. The expenses of the Charity Commission were very great; the last Return showed an expenditure of 78,000 l. 1740 Geo.
 MR. DISRAELI said, he thought the hon. Gentleman was committing a mistake in supposing that the noble Lord at the head of the Government had actually assented to the Motion in the qualified terms in which he had proposed to submit it to the House. It was quite clear that the noble Lord did not know what were the intentions and objects of the hon. Gentleman. It was obvious that they were not those indicated by the noble Lord. He (Mr. Disraeli) thought it would be extremely unwise for the House of Commons to go into Committee on a Statute of not less importance than the Act of Uniformity, when absolutely the hon. Member who made that proposal had not indicated to the House in precise language what was his object, and when the First Minister of the Crown, who had sanctioned the Motion, had described it in a manner which proved that he was unacquainted with the intention of its proposer.
 MR. DISRAELI : In consequence of the observations of the right hon. Gentleman, which certainly are very unsatisfactory to me. I will, without waiting for that correspondence, take an early opportunity of putting before the House and the country the nature of the operation as I believe it to be, with respect to this loan; so that when the correspondence shall arrive, the House will be better able to appreciate its value.
 MR. DISRAELI : I wish, Sir, to make an inquiry of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control with regard to some financial operations of the Indian Government. The House will, perhaps, recollect that about a year ago a complete conversion of the Indian Five per Cents. was carried into successful operation by the Government of India, and they were converted into Four per Cents. The price of the Five per Cents, at the time of the conversion was 112 l. l. l.
 MR. HADFIELD seconded the Motion. That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, that She will be graciously pleased to give directions that there be laid before this House, Copies of Treasury or other Order appointing Robert Wray, esquire, Standing Counsel to the Attorney General in Equity Crown matters, or the date when and by whom and under what circumstances he was appointed."
 MR. GRANVILLE VERNON said, he deprecated the printing of such a mass of trash as the returns moved for by the hon. Member for Southwark.
 MR. GRANVILLE VERNON said, that although but a humble Member of the House, he thought it rather an insult upon his own common sense if he were called upon to vote upon a Motion such as this before it had been explained by its proposer what was the object of it. Upon the suggestion of the noble Lord (Vscount Palmerston), indeed, some alteration had been made in the Motion; but it appeared to him that that alteration was anything but satisfactory. The subject to which it referred was one of the most important with which that House could have to deal, and it appeared to him that the best course the hon. Gentleman could pursue would be to withdraw the Motion, and bring it on again at a future day, when he might be able to explain to the House what he really did mean by his Motion.
 MR. H. BAILLIE said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the system under which the Post Office was administered, and to move—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, the orders given by the Treasury to the Postmaster General, in the year 1848, to establish a Post-office communication, at the expense of his department, between the islands of North and South Uist, Harris, and Barra, should be carried into effect without delay." 1743 l.
 MR. HEYWOOD said, that he was wiling further to alter his Motion by omitting the latter section, and stopping at the words "religious test." It would then read thus—
 1738 "That this House will resolve itself into a Committee to consider such clauses of the Act of Uniformity of 1662 as impose religious tests."
 MR. HEYWOOD said, he wished to put the Motion in the shape most satisfactory to the House, and was ready to adopt the suggestion of the learned Serjeant. With that view he would beg to be allowed to withdraw the original Motion. negatived.
 MR. HEYWOOD said, he was very sorry that he had been misunderstood. The object he had in view was that boys, not merely belonging to the Church of England, but to other denominations, should be allowed to partake of the advantages of academical or grammar or free school education, without having religious tests forced upon them of a Church to which they did not belong.
 MR. HEYWOOD said, he had no objection to modify his Motion. The most important and urgent cases were not at Oxford, but at Trinity College, Dublin. For the scholarships there sacramental
 1737
 MR. HEYWOOD said, he would now beg to move, in accordance with the notice he had given, that the House resolve itself into a Committee to consider such clauses of the Act of Uniformity of 1662, as impose religious tests. If the Resolution were adopted, he would introduce a measure to repeal that portion of the Act of Uniformity, by which it was directed that the schoolmaster of public schools should take the affirmation prescribed by the Act of Uniformity. One clause of the Act required every public schoolmaster to sign his conformity to the Church of England, and the result of which was, that they had made every grammar school in the country a Church of England institution, The schoolmasters consequently considered themselves entitled to make all the boys, without exception, learn the Catechism of the Church of England, and attend its service on Sunday. That was, of course, quite agreeable to the members of the Establishment, but was very hard on those boys who happened to be the sons of Dissenting parents, and who were obliged to attend a service in which their parents could not conscientiously join. To remedy the evil he was prepared to adopt the clause proposed by the right hon. Member for Droitwich (Sir J. Pakington) in his Education Bill, by which it was declared that he would not require any child to receive religious instruction to which the parents objected. The question was one that called for the interference of Parliament, and he had the authority of the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge for saying that an alteration in the tests at present imposed was highly necessary. One of the first duties of a Representative of the people was to take care that the religious scruples
 1732 l., 1733
 MR. WHITESIDE said, he considered that the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone) was a satisfactory answer to the speech of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) and afforded the strongest reasons for the rejection of the Motion altogether, because the Motion that the House should go into Committee in order to find out what was the meaning of the hon. Member (Mr. Heywood) was perfectly absurd, and was a most unjustifiable task to be imposed on them. The hon. Gentleman, however, said that he was willing to qualify his Motion provided he were permitted to do something with the University of Dublin. Now, it was a most remarkable fact that that University was the most liberal of any of the Universities of the United Kingdom, and there was extant a speech of Mr. Grattan, which was spoken in 1794, in which that eminent man pronounced a panegyric on the Dublin University as being the most liberal in Europe, because it had permitted the education of Dissenters within its walls fully a century before any other University. He visited the University last week, when he saw a list of scholarships for election, and he asked whether they were to be open to all classes of Her Majesty's subjects, and the answer was that they were. But what did the hon. Member propose? He proposed that scholarships also should be open to Dissenters; but he did not yet go so far as fellowships. Now, he (Mr. Whiteside) admitted that the Dissenters in Ireland were a very respectable body of men; their language was more moderate than that used by the Dissenters of England—and in which he thought they showed their good sense; but the proposition, that the doubts raised as to the meaning of the hon. Member's Motion should be solved by fastening on the unfortunate University of Dublin and seizing upon its scholarships was one which he did not think even the noble Lord himself would assent to.
 MR. HENLEY said, he considered that the Motion would be rendered only the more objectionable by the alteration the
 1739
 MR. MONSELL , in reply, said, that in the month of November last, on account of reports that had been received from the East by the Government, it was considered desirable to increase very largely the manufacture of Lancaster shells. He had communicated with Mr. Nasmyth on the subject, who had placed at the disposal of the Government his great works, but, on consultation with the Engineer Department at Woolwich, it was found impossible, in consequence of the absence of certain things, that the work could be carried on in Mr. Nasmyth's factory. They, therefore, found themselves obliged to erect the establishment at Woolwich to which the
 1729 1730
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE said, it appeared to him the hon. Gentleman had done himself injustice in not folly explaining what it was he wished to submit to the Committee. The hon. Gentleman did not read the whole sentence, and by not doing so he seemed to propose that the House should inquire generally into the effect of the Act of 1662 which imposed religious tests. That no doubt would be a very wide inquiry indeed; but that evidently was not what the hon. Gentleman meant. He begged to be permitted to read the first part of the hon. Gentleman's Resolution—
 "That this House will resolve itself into a Committee to consider such Clauses of the Act of Uniformity of 1662 as impose religious tests, limiting the advantages of academical or grammar or free school education."
 SIR ERSKINE PERRY seconded the Resolution, feeling, he said, it an honour to be identified with the Dissenters of England in one of the most important movements in the cause of civil and religious liberty which had taken place for the last 200 years. "That this house will resolve itself into a Committee, to consider such Clauses of the Act of Uniformity of 1662, as impose religious tests, limiting the advantages of academical, or grammar, or free school education; and so much of any Regulations of National Institutions, either in England or Ireland, as impose religious tests as conditions or qualifications for any advantages connected with Education, in the English or Irish Universities or Public Schools."
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I waited before making any observations upon the proposal of my hon. Friend the Member for North Lancashire (Mr. Heywood), because I considered that hon. Gentlemen who are connected with some of those institutions to which the Motion refers might wish to express their sentiments on their behalf to the House. I have, however, no difficulty in at once stating the course which it is my intention to pursue respecting it. The Motion of my hon. Friend seems to me to divide itself into two very distinct and different portions. The first part of the Resolution relates to the consideration of those portions of the Act of Uniformity winch require religious tests from schoolmasters and tutors in private families—from persons, in short, from whom generally no religious tests have for a long period been required, and which imposed very severe penalties upon those who neglected to comply with the enactments. The second part of the Resolution, if I properly understand its purport, would appear to me to tend to disturb the settlement which was made last year with regard to the University of Oxford. Now, with regard to the first part of my hon. Friend's Resolution, so far as he has explained it and as I comprehend it, I shall have no sort of difficulty in going along with him. I think these obsolete enactments, which have long ceased to be of any practical effect, and which are no longer in accordance with the spirit
 1734
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL said, he had listened with great attention and interest to the arguments of his right hon. Friend, but he was bound to say that the reasoning he had heard had not in any way shaken his deep conviction that the law which the House was now asked to repeal was an unnecessary, a tyrannical, a mischievous law, and one which it was discreditable to them to allow to remain any longer upon the Statute Book. It was fully admitted that it imposed a restraint on the natural feelings of mankind, and therefore ought to be repealed. The arguments used in support of the existing law were of a twofold character. It was said that social and domestic evils of very great magnitude would result from promoting marriage with a deceased wife's sister. Before discussing the defects of the existing law, he would briefly refer to an argument derived from a different source. It was said the question was already settled, the law of God having forbidden these marriages and declared them incestuous. Of course, if such a law were really in existence, they were bound at once to submit to it, and there would be an end to the question; but when he turned to the text in which the prohibitory law was said to be contained, he found that, so far from containing a prohibition against the marriage of a deceased wife's sister, it conveyed the very opposite meaning. The prohibition contained in the text was for the avowed purpose of preventing pain and vexation to the wife; and the conclusion to be drawn from the words used was, that they applied to a time when the wife was living and subject to annoyance and pain, and not to a time when death had relieved her from all pain and annoyance. When he found that the law was addressed to a people amongst whom polygamy, though not expressly sanctioned, was undoubtedly occasionally practised, and that
 1755 1756 1757 1758 1759
 MR. KER SEYMER said, that the hon. and learned Attorney General had presented himself to the House that day in a new capacity. The chief law officer of the Crown had appeared as the advocate of those who had deliberately broken the law, by means, in some instances, no doubt, of perjury; for many of these marriages could not have taken place except through the aid of a false oath. He had hoped that the House would not again have been called on to discuss this question, and that the existing law would have been acquiesced in; but that seemed now to have been only a pleasing delusion, and when he saw advertisements of a society for procuring en amendment of the law of marriage, with a treasurer, secretary, and clerks, he began to be aware of what must follow. A greater sham was never attempted to be imposed on Parliament than that it was the poor who were agitating for the present Bill. If the poor wore the only parties concerned they might depend upon it the House would never have heard of the measure. It was not the poor who sent lawyers' clerks through the country at great expense to obtain signatures to petitions. He did not wish to argue this question on scriptural grounds, though he thought the argument against the Bill, founded on them, to be perfectly maintainable, but he conceived that the House of Commons was the least adapted place for the discussion of strictly religious questions. He could not, however, entirely pass over what might be called the ecclesiastical view of the case. The House was now for the first time called on to place the law of the land in direct opposition to the law of the Church. He could conceive a case when it might be necessary to do that; but it must be, he maintained, a case of great necessity, and, he asked, did that great necessity exist in the present instance? There was no doubt that the 99th Canon was binding on the clergy, and in connection with the law had hitherto been a guide to the conduct of the laity. Look, then, at the position in which the present Bill, if passed, would place the clergy, declaring, as it would, that they might break the law of the Church with
 1773 "It has been generally laid down as a rule, that what relations of a man's own he is bound not to marry with, the same relations of his wife's he is likewise forbidden to marry, for they two are one." a vinculo matrimonii 1774 1775 1776
 MR. WHITESIDE said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down had argued that there was no traditional proof that the Jews from the earliest times objected to a man marrying two sisters. Now, if he had referred to a paper which was handed in by the Rev. R. C. Jenkins to the Commissioners, he would have found this passage—
 "It appears, however, that the traditional law of the Jews did exclude the marriage of two sisters in succession, but whether upon the ground of this passage (in Leviticus), or upon some more general law, does not clearly appear." "On which account our lawgiver (Moses) has also forbidden other matrimonial connections, commanding that no man shall marry his granddaughter, whether she be his son's or his daughter's child; nor his niece; nor his aunt; nor his grandmother, by either father or mother; nor any woman who has been the wife of his uncle, or of his son, or of his brother; nor, again, any step-
 1779 "And sisters are like limbs, which, although they are separated from one another, are nevertheless all adapted to one another by nature and natural relationship. And jealousy, which is the most grievous of all passions, is continually producing new, and terrible, and incurable mischiefs." "The agitators went about the country, asserting in the most positive terms that until Lord Lyndhurst's Bill passed, these marriages were sanctioned by the law of England. Now, the fact was, that Lord Lyndhurst's Act had made no alteration in the law; it had only altered the mode of procedure by which these unlawful marriages were to be set aside. There had been previously a great defect in the law of England on this point. Marriages, however censurable on the ground of incest, were not void. Even if a man married his own sister or his mother, he (Lord Campbell) was ashamed to say that that was not a void marriage; it stood good until it had been set aside by the decrees of a competent judge. Lord Lyndhurst's Act properly provided that those marriages which heretofore had only been voidable should be void, as they had been before the Reformation, and as they were in Scotland at this time. Lord Lyndhurst introduced no new law, but only improved the mode of procedure—the manner in which the law was to be in future enforced." 1780 "The truth was, those marriages were void  ab initio; "Your petitioners believe that if such a Bill become law, it will be Contrary to the Word of God, destructive of the peace and privity of families, and an outrage on the best feelings of the great majority of the inhabitants of this country. Your petitioners are aware that the present Bill is not intended to apply to Scotland; but this does not remove their objections to it. Besides, they deem it impossible that the law on such a subject can remain different in the several parts of the kingdom for any length of time." 1781
 MR. NAPIER said, it appeared to him that the onus was cast upon those who sought to change the law, and not upon the other party, to give satisfactory reasons for making this tremendous experiment. The present law, he contended, was sacred in its foundation and salutary in its results. The hon. and learned Gentleman who had last addressed them was under a misapprehension when he said that the religious ground had been abandoned by the opponents of the proposed Bill. He certainly did not understand his right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole) to do so. On the contrary, his right on. Friend had put that point forward prominently and primarily. He, however, apprehended that it did not weaken the Scriptural foundation of the law if they found by experience that it was attended with salutary and beneficial results. On the contrary, if he found that the law which they supposed to be in conformity with Scripture had produced satisfactory results, that fact would rather tend to corroborate the truth of its Divine origin than otherwise. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General had complained of the tyranny of the present law. But what was the fact as regarded Ireland? He would venture to say that all classes in that country, high and low, rich and poor, viewed the proposed change in the law with abhorrence and disgust. When he (Mr. Napier) hoard the accommodation of the poor alluded to, he looked to the lowly cabins of Ireland, and among them—the poorest and the humblest—he was bound to say of all persuasions—where, with all the miserable accommodation possessed by the poor, they would nevertheless find in general as large an amount of domestic propriety as the world could exhibit. Among the poorest and humblest in Ireland there was a deep religious sentiment of domestic propriety, and he could truly say he never heard of a case of incest in that country. The people of Ireland were utterly opposed to this measure, so were the people of Scotland; and the hon. Gentleman opposite, knowing that they were so, had not attempted to extend it to that country. Why, then, did ho seek to force it on Ireland? There was in the history of the Church and of Christianity one continuous stream of testimony against such marriages. It was his deliberate and solemn conviction that the present law was based upon the law of God, as well as included in the social expansion of Christianity. In
 1764 1765 1766 De thoro fratris defuncti." "Audi decreta synodi, superstes frater thorum defuncti non ascendat, Domino dicente. 'Erunt duo in carne unâ' —Ergo uxor fratris tui sorar tua est." usque ad mortem. 1767 "Albeit I be not forbidden by plain words to marry my wife's sister, yet am I forbidden so to do by other words which by exposition are plain enough. For when God commands me I shall not marry my brother's wife, it follows directly by the same that he forbids me to marry my wife's sister. For between one man and two sisters, and one woman and two brothers, is like analogy or proportion, which is my judgment in this case." "It is necessary, to perfect the union of marriage, that the husband should take the wife's relatives in the same degree to be the same as his own without distinction, and so  vice versâ; 1768 "Under the influence of Christianity a purer taste and stricter doctrine have been inculcated, and an incestuous connection between an uncle and niece has been recently adjudged by a great master of public and municipal law to be a nuisance extremely offensive to the laws and manners of society, leading to endless confusion, and the pollution of the sanctity of private life." Will. 1769
 MR. WIGRAM said, that the hon. and learned Attorney General had contended that the eighteenth verse of the eighteenth chapter of Leviticus did not prohibit these marriages. But those who opposed these marriages never had said that it did; they contended that that verse did not expressly admit them or remove the prohibition placed on them by the earlier verses of that chapter. For the first thirteen or fourteen centuries after the Christian era the universal Church had acted upon the principle of the present law, and he thought they should not disturb it on light grounds. The law was now settled and well understood; but if this Bill were passed it would be left in an undefined and unsettled state, and constant efforts would be made to disturb and to trench still further upon it. The maintenance of the present law was a matter of the greatest importance to the morality of society in this country, and if the law were invaded in the manner proposed by this Bill a licence and liberty would be indulged in with respect to marriage which would be attended with unhappy results. Whatever opinions might be entertained on this subject by different members of that House, there were very few of them who could approve of the present Bill. If there was any law which ought to stand upon a sound, consistent, and intelligible basis, it was the law of marriage; but he could not understand the proposition that a man should be
 1760
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES said, that
 1770 1771 1772
 MR. COLLIER said, he thought that the nature of the objections urged against this Bill had very materially changed within the last few years. When a measure of this kind was first submitted to that House, the objections to it were founded upon the high ground, that marriage with the sister of a deceased wife was prohibited by the law of God, and was contrary to the law of nature. That high ground had latterly been evacuated by the opponents of the Bill, and the right hon. Member for Midhurst (Mr. Walpole) now wished to throw the burden of proof upon those who supported the legality of these marriages. He (Mr. Collier) considered, however, that when the question was whether a man and woman could lawfully marry, those who objected to such marriage were bound to prove, if they could, that it was prohibited by the law of God; and he denied that any but the most paramount social considerations could justify them in putting asunder those who were joined together without any contravention of the divine law. The foundation and basis of the Act of Henry VIII., and of subsequent legislation on this subject, were the law of God, but that
 1761 1762
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, in moving that this Bill be read a second time this day six months, I hope that, as the subject to which it relates is one which affects some of the nearest relations of social intercourse and domestic life, I may be permitted to trespass for a short time upon the patience of the House. The present House of Commons have never had this
 1744 ipso facto pari naturâ 1745 1746 1747 vice versâ, 1748 1749 1750 1751 1752 "Fœcunda culpæ sæcula nuptias "Primùm inquinavere, et genus, et demos." "Hoc fonte derivata clades "In patriam populumque fluxit." 1753 1754
 MR. T. CHAMBERS said, he was somewhat indifferent to the supposed evils on either side, but he was anxious to see the question argued as a religious one. The law could have no justification, except upon a religious ground, and the alteration would have had no justification except upon the same ground. He did not think that the law of marriage ought to be tampered with, but would it be said that the Act of 1835 did not tamper with the law of marriage? He heartily re-echoed the assertion that the law of marriage ought not to be tampered with except the law of God sanctioned the alteration. Ought not the House, however, to remove the disgrace to the statute-book made by the law of 1835? The right hon. and learned gentleman the member for Dublin University
 1777 1778
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE moved the adjournment of the debate. adjourned Wednesday,
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he wished to put the following question to the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary:—By a clause in the Burial Act a discretionary power was vested in the Secretary of State for the Home Department, to grant a licence in certain specified cases for interment in vaults. That power, however, was never exercised except on the report of a Government Inspector, but that report could never be obtained in time for use. He would, therefore, beg to ask the secretary of state, whether in any town, where a  primâ facie
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Gentleman seemed to be under the misapprehension that there was a difference in the law of England, Scotland, and Ireland, with regard to deductions allowed to landlords for the income tax. That was not the fact, as the law was precisely the same in a all three countries. An allowance was made in respect of rates charged to the occupier, but none in respect of rates charged to the landlord. Those rates which must be by the law of England charged on the landlord, stood as part of his assessment, and were not deducted from it in England or Scotland more than in Ireland. It was, however, true that there were certain rates which in Scotland fell on the landlord and not on the tenant, but in England fell on the tenant and not on the landlord. In that respect, practically, the landlord in Scotland was under a disadvantage as compared with the landlord in England, but the law was precisely the same in both countries. It was not his intention to propose any change in this respect in the Bill that would be introduced.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the effect of an augmentation of the duty on spirits, on former occasions, had been to charge spirits, whether in bond or duty paid, in the hands of distillers, but not to charge spirits which were in the hands of wholesale dealers. It appeared, however, to the Government that there was no difference in principle between spirits in the hands of distillers and spirits in the hands of wholesale dealers, and they accordingly included both classes of persons in the Resolutions they had proposed to the House. In taking that step they were influenced by the information they had received as to the large quantity of spirits which had been taken out for consumption in Scotland and Ireland before the financial statement was made on the part of the Government. In the fortnight ending the 7th of April last the quantity of spirits
 1790
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, a considerable additional quantity of sugar had been taken out of bond, but only a small quantity of tea.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would explain the reasons which determined the Government to make the distinction noticed by the hon. Gentleman between the duty on tea and the duties on sugar and coffee. An Act which received the assent of Parliament at the beginning of the Session suspended the further reduction of the duty on tea, but that suspension was limited in the manner expressed in the present Bill—namely, until a year after the conclusion of the war. It was therefore thought in imposing a further duty on tea, that the same rule should be applied. He had, however, hesitated to extend that rule to the duties on coffee and sugar, inasmuch as such a course might appear too much to interfere with the discretion of Parliament in afterwards dealing with those duties. But he would admit that the matter was open to reconsideration, and if, in Committee on the Bill, it should be the general desire to consider the additional duties on tea and coffee merely as war taxes, he should not be disposed to oppose the proposition.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I rise to do an act of justice to my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, because it has been stated by the hon. Member for Wick (Mr. Laing), and by other hon. Members, that the House is now about to take a first step in a retrograde course; and hon. Gentlemen have described with justice the mischiefs attendant upon such a course. I am sorry to say, however, that this is not the first step in this direction, because I am the unfortunate person whose duty it was last Session to propose the first step of retrogression, and the first step in the reversal of the great work of the last twelve or fourteen years. It is quite true, as has been stated by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Sir W. Clay), that the proposed customs duties do not contain the elements of protection, and that so far as that great and capital feature is concerned, we have not reached the point at which we are compelled to encounter that very serious question. Our work has been a double one. Our first and greatest object has been to eradicate from our laws the bad principle of protection, yet, over and above that capital purpose, Parliament has gradually, cautiously, and successfully endeavoured to diminish the pressure of duties upon the great articles of consumption. Last year we took the first step to undo that policy when we laid an additional duty upon sugar and a large additional duty upon malt. These were very great evils, undoubtedly, and I am bound to say that I do not think we shall stop
 1801 1802 l., l. l. l. l. 1803
 MR. EWART  said, he should have preferred a small extension of the system of loans to a mode of taxation which was in reality sinning against the principle of sound political economy. He wished to speak as the advocate of the poorer classes, because he was convinced that in these indirect taxes they paid in greater proportion than those above them.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he quite agreed with the noble Lord, as far as the pernicious effects of illicit distillation were concerned; but the experience of the measure of last year, in consequence of the improved social condition of that portion of the United Kingdom, was very favourable. If it was necessary for the purpose of collecting the additional duty, the provisions of the last Act would be regularly enforced.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, that the people of this country had much reason to complain of the course adopted with respect to these courts, both by the Government and the Legislature. It was now more than thirty years since the propriety of reforming these courts was first mooted, and during that time changes had been introduced into all the other courts of the realm and into many of its institutions, but all attempts to reform the Ecclesiasti-
 1829 l., l. l. 1830
 COLONEL BOLDERO  said, he begged to inquire of the First Lord of the Treasury what arrangements had been made as regarded the intended encampment at Aldershot, and whether the force would con-consist of cavalry, yeomanry, artillery, line, and militia regiments?
 COLONEL BOLDERO : If they volunteered for permanent duty?
 LORD NAAS  said, that the experience of past times was not satisfactory with regard to an increase in the spirit duties; and he wished to know if Government had the intention or the power to take any additional steps for the suppression of illicit distillation in Ireland. He believed that any increase in that practice would be attended with the most pernicious effects. He also wished to know if Government had any intention to equalise the duties on spirits throughout the United Kingdom, for he was convinced that such a plan was not only possible, but that it would be attended with a great increase to the revenue. It would also remove many great anomalies, and have the best possible effect in many other respects.
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  said, he thought it would have been better for the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in the second year of the war, to have borrowed 2,000,000 l.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he understood the electric telegraph to Balaklava was to have been opened either yesterday or to-day. He wished to know if any information had been received from the seat of war by its means; and if so, whether the noble Lord had any objection to state what was the nature of that information? Also, whether the telegraph was to be open for the use of the public?
 MR. LAYARD : Then there is no information whether the bombardment of Sebastopol has been successful or not?
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he wished to know whether the same answer would apply to other articles on which the duties had been augmented?
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, perhaps he might be permitted to state that he yesterday received by the telegraph a message from Sir Edmund Lyons, dated the day before, acknowledging the receipt of a communication from the Admiralty; and to-day another message from the consul at Bucharest, stating that he had no news to communicate.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, it was not open the whole of the way to Balaklava. The submarine telegraph was laid down from the Crimea to Varna; but there was no telegraph between Varna and Cape Kaliega. As soon as the wire could be laid down along that distance the communication by electric telegraph would be complete. The message received yesterday, the 25th, from Sir Edmund Lyons, was dated the 24th.
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, he could not help expressing his surprise at the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth (Mr. Collier); for after having distinctly stated that he objected to every part of the Bill, he concluded by saying, as it was better than nothing, he should vote for the second reading, with a view of introducing some modifications of his own in Committee. Notwithstanding what had been said by the hon. and learned Member, he (Sir F.
 1820 1821 "I, Doctors' Commons, in the parish of St. Benedict, Paul's-wharf, London, being very aged, and finding by general computation that my time draws to au end, and being much shaken, both in body and mind, with a Westminster ague, yet of perfect mind and memory, to avoid all suits and controversies that hereafter may arise concerning my estate or any part or parcel thereof and to the intent and purpose that my contentious days may be consummated and ended in peace, do constitute, &c., this my last will and testament. For my personal estate (having never been possessed of any lands) I willingly bequeath my reverend judges, vicars-general, chancellors, commissaries, archdeacons, deans and chapters, and their surrogates, and also all high commissioners, judges, delegates, and  legum doctores quoscunque l., 1822 1823 1824 vivâ voce, vivâ voce 1825
 MR. NOEL  said, that in consequence of the casualties of war, our cavalry force in the Crimea had been nearly destroyed, and was at present unable to take the field. It would be most satisfactory to know that reinforcements had been sent out, and he therefore begged to ask the hon. Under Secretary for War what steps had been taken to increase our cavalry force, and to maintain the effective establishment of the different regiments; and also, whether it was the intention of the Government to forward without delay, in steam transports, large draughts of the different cavalry regiments now in the Crimea?
 MR. NOEL : Are those reserves to be forwarded by steam transports?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he regretted as much as the hon. Member himself the necessity of raising the duties on commodities which entered so largely into the consumption of the people as tea, coffee, and sugar. But it was not necessarily involved in the adoption of free trade that they should insist that, under all circumstances, the burden of the taxation of the country should be borne by direct taxation, and that there should be no attempt to distribute the burden equally amongst all classes, by placing a portion of it upon the country in the shape of indirect taxes. On the contrary, it was clear that, unless they did so, the pressure of the direct taxation would be intolerable. While, therefore, he trusted that the House would adhere to the policy of late years, he could not regard this Bill as in any degree inconsistent with the principle of free trade. Nor was it true, as had been asserted in the course of the debate, that this was the first occasion on which the indirect taxation of the country had been increased of late years; because only last year an additional duty was imposed on malt. With regard to the other remarks of the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, he must say that he thought Parliament would have betrayed its duty had it thrown the whole burden of the war on posterity in the shape of a loan, and not shown that we were ready to bear part of it ourselves by submitting to additional taxes while the war lasted. With respect to the proposition for increasing the income tax to 10 per cent, he (Mr. Labouchere) had a strong feeling that that tax
 1797 l.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he was quite unprejudiced in this matter, for he belonged neither to the Court of Chancery, nor to the Ecclesiastical Courts, and he thought their lot hard when they had to choose between the two. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General was naturally of opinion that there was nothing like leather; in other words, that there was nothing like Chancery. Now, the House would recollect that the Bill introduced last year came before them in four shapes; and that after all the alterations and amendments introduced in it the measure was withdrawn, when it was found that the House would not support it. Everybody owned then, as they did now, that the Ecclesiastical Courts ought to be reformed, the only question being how these reforms should be accomplished, and bearing upon this point there was one important question and reply in the evidence taken before the Commission, which seemed to him of the greatest importance. One of the witnesses was asked—"Does
 1828
 MR. WILSON  said, that the agreement for a renewal of the lease of the house occupied by the Duke of Buccleuch had been entered into by the Government of Lord Derby, and was confirmed by the Government of Lord Aberdeen.
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I shall be prepared, if any undue delay takes place, to make a specific Motion on the subject.
 MR. BRIGHT : I wish, Sir, to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government whether he is prepared to lay on the table of the House papers that will give full information as to the transactions that have taken place at Vienna, in order that at some early period the whole of this question and the condition of the country with regard to the war may be taken into consideration by the House? I observe that
 1791
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he should not oppose the Bill at that stage, but should do so strongly in Committee, and at every subsequent stage. If it were not abandoned, he considered that it would create discontent all over the country.
 MR. ROEBUCK : Then in twenty-four hours we could communicate with Balaklava. Under these circumstances would the noble Lord at the head of the Government think it within the scope of his duty, seeing the natural anxiety of the public upon the subject, to communicate without loss of time whatever might happen there?
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he begged to inquire if he rightly understood the First Lord of the Admiralty to say that the telegraph was entirely open from this country to Balaklava? If so, how long would the
 1789
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought it was desirable that some plans or report should be laid before the House, which would afford them information as to the alterations contemplated by the Bill.
 MR. HEYWORTH  said, if they placed a duty upon articles of general consumption, it was an inevitable effect that their price should be increased, and their consumption diminished. Not only so, but trade in general must be diminished. For these reasons he regarded Customs duties in general as not based on sound financial principles, and believed that we ought to raise the additional revenue required by direct, rather than indirect taxation.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to what had fallen from the hon. Secretary to the Treasury on a former occasion, in reference to the imports of sugar from the West Indies. He admitted that there had been an increase in those imports, but the West India interest received more for the smaller quantity eight years ago than they had received for the larger quantity in the pre-
 1792 l. l.
 MR. MALINS  said, he would admit that direct taxation would be the best of all taxation if all men were equal in point of riches; but a large proportion of the people of this country were in such a struggling state, that the sight of the tax-gatherer was positively distressing to them. The House should, therefore, be slow in acceding to the principle of a large increase of direct taxation. He (Mr. Malins) approved generally of the principle of the Budget, and he was not opposed, therefore, to the moderate increase proposed on the amount of the income tax. But he would be prepared to give any large extension of that tax at a future occasion his most strenuous opposition, as he could not consent to an extension of the principle of direct taxation much further. Considering the disturbance caused to trade and commerce by the augmentation of Customs duties, and also considering that the great operation in which the country was engaged might be the means of effecting a peace, he questioned whether it would not have been the better course to have taken the loan for 20,000,000 l. l. l. l., 1799
 MR. MALINS  said, he rose to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. He trusted that the House would not consider that he wished to perpetuate any abuse in these courts, or in any matter connected with the administration of justice. He would yield to no man in his desire to improve that administration, but there was a great difference between improving and abolishing. If his hon. and learned Friend (the Solicitor General) had, instead of abolishing these courts, confined himself to making their practice as perfect as possible, he and those who acted with him would have lent the hon. and learned Gentleman their best assistance to effect his object. But Government refused to take warning by what had occurred last year, and this year had brought forward a measure which, though differing considerably in some of its details, was essentially the same as the Bill of last year. Government, it appeared, had deliberately made up their minds last year to a particular course, but this year they had departed, to a certain extent, from that course, and this was a good reason why Government was not entitled to call upon Parliament to sanction the Bill before the House. The question was one of great difficulty, and involved a subject which of necessity could be but little known to Members of that House. He would briefly state what was the object of Government by this Bill, and what was the object that, in his opinion, ought to be kept in view. The object of the Bill was to totally abolish the existing Testamentary Courts and the Ecclesiastical Courts of the country, and to transfer their business to the Court of Chancery. Now, this business was the testamentary business of England, involving the right to the whole of the personal property in the country, and it was proposed to include also all real property. This must, sooner or later, affect every person possessing property to the amount of 20 l., 1807 l. 1808 de novo, 1809 1810 "We think, therefore, that the interests of the public would not be consulted by the transfer to the Court of Chancery of the uncontested testamentary business. It could not, we think, safely be so transferred as part of the general business of that court; and if transferred to a separate department (which for all substantial purposes would be a separate court), the transfer would be attended with all the inconveniences without any of the advantages incident to the constitution of a distinct court." 1811 1812 1813 l. 1814 l. l. 1815 vivâ voce vice versâ. 1816
 MR. COLLIER  said, he should support the second reading of the Bill not because he believed it the best possible measure, but a great improvement on the existing state of things. He should support it, because it was founded on the principle not of reforming, but of abolishing the Ecclesiastical Courts, these Gattons and Old Sarums of our judicial system. When his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General entered on the contest in which he is engaged with these courts, he did not seem aware of the extraordinary tenacity of life possessed by his foe. Twice,
 1817 "Nascenti cui tres animas Feronia mater (Horrendum dictu) dederat, terna arma movenda Ter leto sternendus erat." "Cui tamen omnes Abstulit hæe animas dextra et totidem exuit armis." 1818 l., 1819
 CAPTAIN LAFFAN  said, he did not intend to offer any opposition to the second reading of the Bill before the House, because the amendment which he wished to see introduced might be made in Committee. He saw no reason why sugar should be taxed in a different manner from wine, or any other article. On wine of all kinds there was a uniform duty of 1 s. 1798 l.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, he intended to vote for the second reading of the Bill, but certainly not because he was in any degree disposed to disparage the opinion of the majority of the Commissioners of 1832. With regard to the proctors, he admitted that they had ably discharged their duties, but it did not at all follow that because the gentlemen whose duty it was to administer an existing system had done it with advantage to the public, that, therefore, the system itself was one which ought to be supported. The question really was, whether this was a proper subject for law reform; and, if so, whether the reform proposed was one deserving the approval of the House of Commons? There had been an opinion long existing in the country that this was a proper subject for reform; and he thought that very good reasons had been assigned, for the opinion that the present testamentary jurisdiction was altogether in a state unworthy of those improvements which had taken place in other branches of the law. It was absurd to suppose that they could deal with this subject upon the notion that the existing system was a good system and was working well and satisfactorily in the country. The fact was, that they must recast the whole system, and the question that naturally arose was, how it was to be done? One great evil which would be remedied by the principle of the Bill was that division of jurisdiction that at present existed in a matter which was unity in itself, and which required to be consolidated. Why should it be necessary, in the nature of things, that you should have one court to decide what constituted a will and another court to construe the purport of that will? There was no ground whatever for such a distinction in principle. It appeared to him to be absurd to say that the Court of Chancery, after having determined how an estate should be distributed, should have no power of determining the instruments for its distribution. In cases of wills made by married women under special powers, and of instruments which were sometimes executed to avoid some Statute, such as wills made in the form of a deed to avoid the law relating to legacy or mortmain, the present system appeared to him to re-
 1826 1827
 MR. GREGSON  said, he very much regretted the absence of reciprocity in our dealings with the Chinese, for while we taxed the commodities imported from them at the rate of 180 per cent, we insisted on their taking ours at a Customs duty of only 6 per cent. He feared that the increase of the duty on tea would materially check our trade with China, and that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not derive the additional revenue he anticipated either from the increased duty on tea or that on sugar.
 MR. LAING  said, he objected so strongly to the Bill, that, if he were supported, he should be ready to divide the House against it. The principle on which it went involved an entire reversal of Sir Robert Peel's commercial and financial policy, which had been carried out during the last ten years with such success, by the cautious and gradual substitution of direct for indirect taxation, and the removal of duties on articles of general consumption. In fiscal matters two and two did not always make four. If, by an addition to the taxation on articles of general consumption a corresponding increase could be obtained in the revenue, no great objection could be urged to such a proposal in a time of war like the present; but all experience showed that it was perfectly possible to go on increasing the taxation on articles of consumption for an indefinite period, without in the end at all benefiting the revenue; nay, it might be with a positive loss. The plan suggested by the hon. Member for Huntingdon (Mr. T. Baring) of adding a percentage to the Customs duties had been tried, and had failed. It was on the failure of that policy that Sir Robert Peel resolved to meet the necessities of the State by the imposition of an income tax, and at the same time to reduce the Customs duties. What had been the results? Why, that while in the eleven years from 1842 to 1853 the balance of taxes repealed over taxes imposed was 6,716,000 l., l. l. l. l. 1795 l. l. l. l. l.; l. l., l. 1796 l.
 MR. ALCOCK  said, had the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer increased the income tax to 10 per cent it would have been unnecessary to
 1804
 MR. T. BARING  said, it was a source of considerable regret to him, the selection of articles made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the imposition of additional Customs duties; he would admit, nevertheless, that the Customs duties ought to bear their fair share in the additional taxation demanded by the position of the country. Two of the articles chosen for increased taxation were the productions of our own colonies, which would therefore suffer from any decrease in their consumption. While, owing to an Act of Parliament having been passed only at the commencement of the Session, to arrest the fall of the duty on the third article—tea—those interested in the trade naturally supposed that no further alteration in the duty would take place in the course of the present year, and had sent out their orders under that impression. He thought the fair method of dealing with the Customs duties would have been to have raised the whole 10 per cent, which upon the 20,000,000 l.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, that with reference to a speech of the hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Treasury on a former evening, he must say, that the same causes which had recently rendered the cultivation of sugar profitable in the Mauritius had also operated in the West Indies. Twenty years ago, Jamaica alone produced 70,000 tons of sugar per annum; while now it only produced 22,000, and for those the net receipt per ton was only half what it was at the former period, owing to the diminution of price and the
 1793
 MR. FAGAN  said, he begged to ask if it was intended by the Chancellor of the Exchequer to amend the schedule of this Bill, so as to remove the objections made to it by the compounders, rectifiers and dealers in Spirits in Scotland and Ireland, on the ground that it subjected their stock in hand to the increased rate of duty?
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, that in reference to what had been stated respecting the operation of direct and indirect taxation, he considered that direct taxation affected all classes subject to the impost equally; but that indirect taxation touched very lightly the rich, while it pressed very heavily indeed on the poorer classes. One objection to the income tax was stated to be its inequality; but it could not be compared with the inequality of the tax on sugar, tea, and coffee, Look at the proportion which the outlay on those articles formed in the expenditure of the operatives and the proportion which it formed in the expenditure of those who had large establishments! No doubt the income tax fell heavily upon persons of small incomes, but if the Customs duties were removed from articles of consumption the saving to those persons would outweigh the income tax. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) had said that if the war should continue the course of events would inevitably drive us again to a system of protection. This
 1805
 MR. W. LOCKHART  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, if it was his intention, in dealing with the income tax, to remove the injustice to which the proprietors of lands and houses in Scotland were subjected, in respect that no deductions were allowed to them for rates or taxes, in accordance with the practice in England and Ireland?
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he could not view without apprehension the beginning of a course of policy opposed to
 1800 l.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he would take that opportunity of asking the noble Lord at the head of the Government, whether the French Ambassador, M. Drouyn de Lhuys, left Vienna at the same time as the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, or if he had left Vienna at all?
 MR. PEEL : It is very difficult to obtain steam transports at the present time, therefore some sailing vessels must be employed.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, the establishment of the cavalry force at the present time, as compared with its amount at the same time last year, was, he believed, just double, both with regard to men and horses. An arrangement had been made that each regiment of cavalry in this country should raise for active service about 120 men and 300 horses. The cavalry force in the Crimea had been increased by bringing from India two cavalry regiments which had passed through Egypt and had now reached their destination. In addition 550 men and double that number of horses were now on their passage from this country to the Crimea; and upwards of 1,100 men and horses had been ordered to proceed to the same destination. One
 1788
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the hon. and gallant Gentleman had stated the effect of the provision in the Act with perfect accuracy. The discretionary power vested in the Secretary of State was qualified by law. He was to exercise it when it could be done without prejudice to the public health, and of course he
 1786 prima facie
 MR. R. PHILLIMORE  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he begged to inquire whether any measures had been taken, in conformity with a re-
 1831
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, he considered that the course pursued by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in proposing an increase of the duties upon tea, coffee, and sugar, was not at variance with the principles of free trade. There was nothing protective in the duties which it was intended to increase. The amount or rate of a duty did not determine its protective quality. Duties were only protective when they were imposed on articles of foreign production at a higher rate than on similar articles of home production; thus giving a bonus to the home producer at the expense of the consumer. He admitted that, theoretically, direct taxation was to be preferred to indirect taxation; but it was impossible—at least impracticable—under the present state of things to confine themselves to direct taxation. During the last twenty years, no less than 25,000,000 l. l.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he wished to know whether the expenditure for the proposed buildings would render any local taxation necessary?
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH,  in reply, said, that the offices to which the Bill referred were required for the service of the Government, and the sum necessary for their erection must, therefore, be provided by Parliament.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that the Bill would be referred to a Select Committee, before whom a general plan of the intended alterations and an estimate of their expense would be laid. The Bill would then come down again to the House, and hon. Members would have an opportunity of considering the plans and the report of the Committee.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to enable the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Works to provide additional offices for the public service, in or near Downing Street. The object of the Bill was to provide for the rebuilding of the Government offices in Downing Street, which were at present in a very dilapidated condition.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, a plan bad been submitted to his consideration by Sir Charles Barry for building public offices in the neighbourhood of the Houses of Parliament, and he had laid that proposal before the Treasury, but the object of this Bill was chiefly to provide for the rebuilding of the public offices in Downing Street, which were at present in a most dilapidated condition. The Foreign-office and the Colonial-office, especially, were in such a state of dilapidation that they required to be propped up on all sides. They were also in a very unhealthy condition. Indeed, they were perfect nuisances, and any change must be for the better.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  hoped, when such a necessity existed for providing public offices, that the vacant space near Downing Street, which had remained unoccupied for so many years, would be rendered available.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I cannot say whether or not M. Drouyn de Lhuys left Vienna at the same time as my noble Friend, but I imagine that he has left by this time.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The telegraphic message did not bear upon that.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the hon. Gentleman has been correctly informed, the telegraph is open, and my right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Admiralty received a message to-day and one yesterday; but it did not contain any news from the Crimea—it simply announced that the telegraph was open. I am not able to answer my hon. Friend's other question, as to whether any arrangements will be made for opening the use of the telegraph to others than the Government. I will give him an answer to that another day.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I may state to the House that it is my intention to request my noble Friend at the head of the War Department to urge upon the commander of the forces to let us have every day some information of what is passing at the seat of war.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : There is nothing, Sir, more reasonable or more common than that when a correspondence is communicated to one House of Parliament, it is communicated to the other House also; so that when the papers to which my hon. Friend has referred are laid on the table of the House of Lords, they will be laid on the table of the House of Commons likewise. I do not undertake to fix any particular day when the papers will be produced. My noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) has not yet returned home, and, though we have had telegraphic messages up to a particular date, I am not in a position to name the day on which the papers will be laid on the table. I can only say that no unnecessary delay will occur in giving to the House the fullest information.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The permanent duty of the yeomanry is for eight days.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, arrangements had been made for erecting at Aldershot huts for 10,000 men, the greater part of which were already prepared, and the rest would very speedily be ready. The intention was to have there twenty regiments of militia, some regiments of the line—how many was not exactly determined—three battalions of field artillery, and two or three troops of cavalry. It was not intended to have any yeomanry, as that force was called out only for eight days, and if they were sent to Aldershot, unless their head-quarters were very near, the whole time of training would be lost in marching, and it was not desirable to take the persons composing that force for too long a period from their natural avocations.
 THE MARQUESS OF CHANDOS , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, that it was limited to the passenger and postal service between Holyhead and Dublin. A great many statements had been circulated in opposition to this Bill; but they were chiefly founded on a misapprehension of its objects.
 MR. LINDSAY said, he was opposed to the Bill, for he believed that the public interests would not be served by the monopoly which it proposed to confer on the London and North-Western Railway Company. He had no doubt that the public would gain most by competition rather than through the medium of the new and extraordinary powers proposed by this Bill.
 MR. CAIRN said, he would not press his Amendment.
 MR. MILES said, he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich (Sir J. Pakington) whether it was his intention to make an alteration in Committee in his Bill for the better encouragement of education in England and Wales, in the words by which he proposed to raise money for educational purposes, by substituting parochial for union charges?
 COLONEL WYNN said, he would beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Clerk of the Ordnance whether there was any truth in the report that many of the fusees fitted to the shells fired from the mortars in the batteries before Sebastopol were made so long ago as 1798, 1801, 1804, and 1812; whether it was true that the powder employed to fill many of the shells was damaged powder restowed, instead of being fresh and good powder; and whether the new pattern fusees made in 1853, and subsequently, had not frequently been found to be inefficient?
 COLONEL WYNN said, he would now beg to ask the hon. Under Secretary at War whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to give any compensation to those officers whose horses—provided at their own expense—had been destroyed by the labour they had been subjected to in bringing up from Balaklava to the camp clothing, medical comforts, and provisions for the soldiers; whether any compensation would be given to those officers whose horses were left behind at Varna when the army embarked from thence for the Crimea?
 MR. EWART said, he would take that opportunity of doing an act of justice, which he owed to himself and to a gallant relative of his who was now serving with the army in the Crimea. Some days ago the hon. Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Layard), at a dinner at Liverpool, openly stated that of the officers who had been promoted to the Staff in the Crimea only one, Major Ewart, of the 93rd Highlanders, a relative of his (Mr. Ewart's), had obtained a first-class certificate at Sandhurst; and the hon. Member added, "I don't know whether he owed it to any Parliamentary influence; I hope not." With regard to the first portion of this statement, that his (Mr. Ewart's) gallant relative was the only officer appointed to the Staff in the Crimea who had earned distinction at Sandhurst, he (Mr. Ewart) felt it to be his imperative duty to state that that was a most inaccurate and incorrect representation, and that he was convinced nothing could be more painful to the feelings of his relative than to be placed in this unjust pre-eminence; for there were many meritorious officers serving on the Staff in the Crimea who had obtained the same distinction as his gallant relative. The hon. Member for Aylesbury had, therefore, though no doubt unintentionally, fallen into an error. The
 1873
 COLONEL LINDSAY said, the hon. Member for Aylesbury had been asked either to retract what was alleged by him against Lord Hardinge, or else to explain in what manner in this particular case of promotion his Lordship had been guilty of maladministration. Instead of doing this, however, the hon. Gentleman had carefully avoided addressing himself to the case in point, but had dealt in vague generalities; and though he told the House he would not retract, yet he had never attempted to show how Lord Hardinge had had the slightest influence upon his son's promotion. Having addressed himself to this question in the public journals, he (Colonel Lindsay) would not trouble the House with any further remarks upon this subject, except to reiterate all that he had therein stated. The hon. Member had accused the Horse Guards of giving promotion to Captain Heneage, who, he said, was not at the battle of Inkerman. He (Colonel Lindsay) believed it would be found that, if Captain Heneage was not at the battle of Inkerman, it was because at the time he was serving his country in the trenches or
 1892 1893
 COLONEL NORTH said, he only rose to supply an omission made in enumerating the services of Lord Burghersh—namely, with regard to the conduct of that gallant officer in India. At the battle of Chillianwallah, Lord Burghersh served as aide-de-camp to the Governor General of India. Owing to the great mortality of the officers in the 24th Regiment in that battle, his Lordship immediately gave up his staff appointment for the purpose of joining the 24th until fresh officers were appointed. He joined the 24th in time to serve at the battle of Goojerat, since which he had served with credit in the Crimea. As regarded the general system of appointments, he would refer to the case of Major Addison, who was entirely indebted for his present position upon the staff to his talents, and not to his political influence or family connections. Again, Colonel Cuninghame, before his appointment to the Turkish Contingent, had served as assistant quartermaster general to one of the divisions of our army in the East, and was most highly spoken of by the Duke of Cambridge and by Lord Raglan. Hon. Members were accustomed in that House to speak of one another in rather free language, because they had an opportunity of answering such attacks; but he questioned the good taste and the chivalrous feeling of the man who took advantage of a public dinner to heap the utmost obloquy upon individuals who had no means of reply. He would advise the hon. Member for Aylesbury, if he wished to retain the good opinion of his countrymen, to adopt that love of fair play which was the characteristic of Englishmen, and to institute proper inquiries before making these unfounded assertions.
 COLONEL KNOX said, he was sorry to say that the present was not the first time that the hon. Member for Aylesbury had made unfair attacks upon gallant officers both of the army and navy. Upon a former occasion he thought proper to traduce the character of a gallant admiral, and his object now was to do the same towards the Commander in Chief. These systematic attacks were not without a purpose, and yet nothing could be more derogatory to the respectability of that House than for an hon. Member to pursue such a course
 1894
 COLONEL KNOX : I would be sorry to use any expression which may be deemed unparliamentary; but I cannot find language sufficiently strong to reprobate the conduct of the hon. Member for Aylesbury. Still, Sir, I am ready to withdraw any expression which you may consider to be improper; but I really do think that the hon. Member should not, without acquainting himself with the circumstances—to put it in the mildest way—venture to asperse the character and conduct of gallant officers both in the army and navy.
 THE CHAIRMAN said, that it was not competent to the hon. Gentleman to propose such an Amendment.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER said, the hon. Gentleman could not, consistently with the forms of the House, propose a Motion in Committee on a money Bill, to extend the charge upon the Consolidated Fund, without having proposed a previous Resolution authorising such an extension. For his own part, he regretted that the hon. Gentleman was
 1898 l., l.; l. l.
 MR. GLADSTONE said, that the grand and main object of Parliament had been to destroy protective duties, and when this was done it was right to say that the system of free trade had been accomplished and established. He had been understood to say that certain high duties—Customs and Excise—adverse to free trade, ought not to be got rid of. That was correct. But he also said that the gradual and progressive reduction of duties on articles of primary consumption ought to take place. It was not possible to deny that such a reduction had formed an important and a valuable feature of late in Parliamentary legislation. Then the great or total abolition of duties that were unproductive in themselves was aimed at. Duties had in that way lately been taken off of from 1,000 to 1,300 articles. It was quite consistent with free trade to keep on some duties, but nominal duties ought to be got rid of
 1899
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER said, that with respect to the Consols part of the loan, it was customary to pay the interest on Consols in January and July, and it had been thought advisable to commence the interest from January, so as not to interfere with the customary forms.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER said, the hon. and learned Member
 1900
 MR. LLOYD DAVIES said, he must express his approbation of the financial measures proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The right hon. Gentleman had shown great discrimination in apportioning the various items of additional taxation. Although he felt the greatest sympathy for the lower classes, still he thought it was not fair to exempt one class from direct taxation and throw all the burden of that taxation upon another.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER said, that the three articles upon which die late Chancellor of the Exchequer had proposed to levy an additional amount of duty were sugar, malt, and spirits. On sugar and spirits there had not been a diminution, but an increase in the consumption, notwithstanding the additional duty imposed. With regard to the malt tax, the result, so far as it could be at present ascertained, was less favourable. The accounts of the malt duty were in such a state that it was not possible at present to ascertain the result with accuracy, but it did appear that the result was less favourable than it was in the case of sugar and spirits. One cause of its being. so was no doubt the high price of barley during the last harvest. The produce of the malt duty had fallen short of the estimate, though the general estimate of his right hon. Friend the late Chancellor of the Exchequer had been exceeded on the year to the extent of 1,000,000 l.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER said, there was no Customs duty upon raw chicory imported from abroad, still less any Excise duty upon that grown in the country. An objection to the present state of the law, which had been forcibly urged upon him by a most influential deputation, was, that there was not sufficient protection for those interested in coffee against the competition in chicory.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER said, it seemed to him that the words proposed by the hon. Member would not have the effect which he intended. If it were the wish of the Committee that the additional sugar duty should be a war duty, it should be done by special enactment. It was better not to press the Amendment then, but to bring it up on the third reading.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER said, he would, as it appeared to be the wish of the Committee, introduce a clause for the purpose suggested by the hon. Member.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER said, he could not give any further information as to the produce of the augmented malt duty than had already been given.
 MR. JOHNSTONE said, he objected to the Bill, on the ground that, while it took away the securities now existing for religious teaching in the schools of Scotland, it substituted no other religious securities in their place. The authors of the Bill had, as it appeared to him, setting aside long experience, and entertaining a species of monomania against religious tests, by one short clause done away with those great securities. It was proposed to remove both from the schoolmaster and the inspector all those religious tests which had operated so beneficially since the schools had been in operation, but it did not contain a single provision supplying their place with any other arrangement calculated to secure the same end.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN said, that the Bill was one, not for the partial but for the general education of the people of Scotland, and yet three gentlemen had successively spoken against it. The hon. Member for Stirlingshire (Mr. Blackburn) insisted that the Bill was a Free Church Bill, while the objections of the hon. Member for Inverness-shire (Mr. H. Baillie) were grounded upon the same principle which had induced the Free Church to oppose the measure, and the hon. Member for Clackmanan (Mr. Johnstone) opposed it, as it seemed, because it was very nearly identical with the Bill brought in last year, and which had the honour of his support. The objections which had been raised to the Bill were, as these rival objections might show, rather on matters of detail than of principle. He would beg to remind the House of the difficulty of legislating upon the subject of education, and would appeal to its good sense to agree to the second reading of the Bill, and then the objections which had been made to it, and which were, as he had just stated, objections to details, could be conveniently considered in Committee. It
 1919
 MR. COWPER said, he must oppose the clause. He thought that if the militiamen went to the stations abroad they were likely to live longer than if they stayed at home. At all events, the friendly societies should be left to make their own rules.
 MR. HARDINGE : I wish to say that I cannot add one word to what has fallen from my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Huntingdon (General Peel), or from my hon. Friend the Under Secretary for War. I feel that I should only weaken the able manner in which they have dealt with the case were I to follow them into that part of the question; but with respect to what has fallen from the hon. Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Layard) as regards a gallant relative of mine, Colonel Cuninghame, Brigadier General of the Turkish Contingent, that hon. Gentleman has ventured to characterise his appointment as neither more nor less than a job. Now, I must remark that Colonel Cuninghame has seen service in the Chinese campaign under Lord Gough, that he was at Alma and Inkerman on the Quartermaster General's staff; and I venture to say that if you were to ask my Lord Raglan or his Royal Highness the Duke of Cambridge, to whose division he was attached, they would tell you that Colonel Cuninghame is a most excellent officer. Therefore, when the hon. Member for Aylesbury throws in my teeth the appointment of Colonel Cuninghame, I reply that my relative has justly and deservedly received his promotion, and defy him to call it in question. The hon. Member for Aylesbury, in his speech at Liverpool, seems to have dealt in inaccuracies of no common order. He said no officer had been appointed to the staff in the Crimea who had taken a first-class certificate at Sandhurst, with one exception—namely, Major Ewart. Now, Major Ewart is a most excellent officer, and owes his
 1891
 MR. BOUVERIE said, he regarded the postponement of the Bill for a month as tantamount to its rejection for the present Session. The question of principle had been dealt with before, and was not new to the House. The Chester and Holyhead Company possessed the identical powers which it was now proposed to transfer to the London and North Western Company. The South Eastern and South Western Companies had similar powers for running steam-boats. With these various precedents, it was for the House to decide whether, with the interests of Ireland so deeply involved, they would reverse the principle they had hitherto acted upon. The real point for the Committee and the House to decide was whether the public would be better served in every respect in the manner proposed than they would be by any other scheme.
 MR. BYNG said, that those who were acquainted with the rules of the army knew that the appointments and promotions in the three regiments of Foot Guards did not rest with the Commander in Chief, but with the colonels of those regiments. He was authorised by Lord Strafford, the colonel of the Coldstream Guards, to say that whatever responsibility attached to the appointments and promotions which had been so much canvassed, rested with him, and him alone; and that he was fully prepared at all times and all seasons to justify them, according to the existing military regulations and the well-known precedents applicable to each individual case.
 LORD NAAS said, he thought some such measure as the present necessary to improve the present state of communication between the two countries. The House, he thought, would do well to allow the Bill to be read a second time, but it would be necessary to take especial care in the Committee that the public interest should be guarded against injury from the censequences of a monopoly.
 MR. DUNLOP said, that as the hon. Member had mentioned that according to the last Report only six petitions had been presented in favour of the Bill, he wished to state that last night he presented nineteen and on that day twenty-three petitions in its favour; and his right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate had presented fifty. Last year there were presented to the House 872 petitions with 85,689 signatures generally favourable to a Bill such as the one before the House, and the petitions in a contrary sense had only 42,381 signatures. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Blackburn) said that the Bill had the support of the borough Members only. The fact was, that thirteen county Members voted for the Bill of last year,
 1913 1914
 MR. LAYARD : Well, I did notice it, but I frankly admit that I fell into the error from not having seen the first Return, and I think, as I have said, that Government are equally responsible with myself for the error.  [Loud Cries of Cries of Cries of 1887 [Ironical Cheers.] "9, Little Ryder-street, April 27, 1855. "My Lord—I cannot permit your letter to remain unanswered. I did not state, although you have thought proper so to assert, that 'the rule applied by you in Lieutenant-Colonel M'Kinnon's case, had been violated in others.' What I did state was, that 'such rules, that is, rules of similar character, had been distinctly violated.' I referred more particularly to the cases of Captain Heneage and Captain Lord E. Cecil, of the same regiment, although I am assured that similar cases are most numerous. "After the tone of your letter and my convictions, I perfectly agree with you that it is a waste of time to hold any further correspondence,
 1888 "Your Lordship is quite at liberty to publish this correspondence, and I reseve to myself the right of doing so should I consider it necessary. "I have the honour to be, my Lord, "Your obedient servant, "A. LAYARD." 1889 Gazette. Gazette Army List [Laughter.] 1890 Army List,
 MR. LAYARD : Sir, I will address myself first to the question placed on the paper by the hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr. Ewart). I beg to assure that hon. Member that in the passage in my speech to which he has referred, I had no intention to make any reflection upon his gallant relative, nor do I think any person who heard me believed that I had any such intention. On the contrary, what I stated
 1886
 MR. LAYARD : It was not on the face of the Return.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. and gallant Member has used a word quite unparliamentary.
 MR. SPEAKER : What I understood the noble Viscount to say was, that the charges" made by the hon. Member for Aylesbury were false and calumnious.
 MR. E. BALL said, he wished to call attention to sonic hardships that existed in the mode of taking securities from maltsters for the amount of duty payable. They were required to give security for double the amount of duty; and their sureties, however responsible, were prevented from selling any portion of their estates while their bonds were in force—on the ground that the Government held a claim over the whole. He hoped the Government would afford some relief on these points.
 MR. CARDWELL said, the hon. Member who had last spoken had overlooked
 1867
 SIR FITZROY KELLY said, he had great objection to this clause, and would have opposed it earlier had the Bill not been passed through the House with such celerity. He thought the House ought to have an opportunity of considering the question, whether, at the outset of the war, a system ought to be adopted of charging posterity—whatever might be the state of the finances and condition of the country—with the payment of a large sum of interest. When the Report was brought up he should move the rejection of this clause. He would also suggest an addition of certain words in order to make the sense clear.
 MR. FRENCH said, he would put it to the House whether the discussion as to military promotions ought not to cease. A notice stood in his name on the paper, to the effect that he intended to ask the First Lord of the Treasury what was the opinion of the Government with reference to Lord Dundonald's plan for the destruction of the Russian fortresses, but he had been requested by Lord Dundonald to postpone the question until Monday next, upon which day he would accordingly put it.
 MR. FRENCH said, he begged to remark that although the Motion was not in accordance with the usages of the House when an intention existed to throw out a Bill, nevertheless the present Motion amounted in substance to the same thing. For years everybody had been complaining of the difficulties of the passage between England and Ireland. A responsible company now came forward prepared to supply competent vessels, which would perform the voyage in between three and four hours—the time at present occupied being frequently upwards of twelve hours—they also undertook to supply passage-boats twice a day, and they were prepared to bind themselves not to raise the fares. He therefore thought he was not demanding too much when he asked the House to assent to the second reading.
 MR. HADFIELD : Sir, I rise to order. Surely that is language not suitable to this House.
 MR. HADFIELD said, that no provision having been made in the Bill for the Roman Catholics, who were one-fifth of the population of Scotland, they were virtually
 1931
 MR. MUNTZ said, he thought that no sufficient reason had been shown for departing from the usual course on this Bill. He should support the second reading.
 MR. H. BAILLIE said, he wished to state the reasons which prevented him from supporting this Bill. It contained no clause which gave the slightest security to the people of Scotland that the education to be afforded to their children would be religious education; but, on the contrary, it removed the securities which at present existed. No religious test was to be required from the schoolmaster, who might be a Roman Catholic, or a member of any other religion, or who might have no religion at all; and it was proposed to remove the supervision of the clergy, and to substitute for it a Board of Education, the majority of which was to consist of nominees of the Government. They all knew that the management of such Board would be in the hands of the chairman and secretary, for whose religious opinions they had no guarantee. The present Bill was an attempt to substitute a secular for a religious system of education, and a question arose whether the English Members would force a system, which they were unwilling to apply in their own case, on the people of Scotland. The right hon. and learned Lord Advocate had been accused of bringing forward this measure in order to carry out the views of the
 1915 1916
 MR. H. BAILLIE said, that on the contrary he had said that he did not think the Free Church desired this Bill.
 MR. H. B. BARING said, he had also a question to ask the hon. Under Secretary for War. He found in a newspaper of the day previous the following statement of the services of officers recently promoted in the Coldstream Guards, made under the sanction of the name of the hon. Member for Aylesbury—
 C. J. Burdett, nineteen years' service, without purchase; no active service. J. W. Newdigate, fifteen years' service, without purchase; no active service. Lord Dunkellin (son of the Marquess of Clanricarde), nine years' service, by purchase; Alma. W. G. Dawkins, eleven years' service, without purchase; Alma. C. W. Strong, sixteen years' service, without purchase; Alma, Inkerman. C. F. Wilson, sixteen years' service, by purchase; West Indies, Alma, Inkerman. Lord Burghersh (son of Lord Westmoreland), twelve years' service, without purchase; Staff. Hon. A. Hardinge (son of Lord Hardinge), eleven years' service, without purchase; Staff. 1874
 MR. H. HERBERT said, he entirely repudiated the notion propounded by the hon. Member (Mr. Lindsay) that the principle upon which the Bill was founded was a novel one. Already the Chester and Holyhead Company had been granted powers precisely analogous to those now looked for; and this Bill might be said only to transfer these powers from one company to another.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE said, he must congratulate Scotland upon the fact that it had acquired an interest in the mind of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, while he regretted that the right hon. Gentleman had not shown a more intimate acquaintance with the facts of the case and with the intention of the Bill than he had displayed. The Bill which he proposed had three objects in view—to reform the parish schools, to ascertain the educational wants of the people, and to supply those wants as they arose. Of those three objects, the last, unquestionably, was the most important. It was a great subject of congratulation and encouragement that on the last two of those objects, which were by far the most important, the Scotch Members of every caste were agreed. He had heard no proposal from the other side to supply those wants. He had heard expressions of strong conviction that something must be done, and he had been told in plain terms that if he would only allow the parish schools to remain as they were, hon. Members on that side would be willing to accept the measure. Now, Government had devised a measure for the supply of the wants of the great towns and populous districts, in which the Scotch representatives on one side of the House acquiesced, and to which those on the other side agreed.
 1923 1924 1925 1926 1927 1928
 MR. WILSON said, it was never intended that the exemption from stamp duties should extend to building societies. It was at first represented that these societies were of great use to the poor, but they were now converted into large speculations for builders and capitalists, and the indirect effect of this exemption was, to defraud the revenue of considerable sums from year to year.
 MR. WILSON said, if the hon. Member had paid attention to the question he would have found that there was no duty upon raw chicory, and the duty placed upon ground chicory was merely to prevent coffee being imported from abroad under the guise of chicory.
 MR. BRIGHT said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. baronet the Home Secretary, and in order that he might be enabled to make a brief statement on the subject to which it referred, he begged to move that the House at its rising adjourn to Monday next. The right hon. gentleman and the House were aware that at the present moment there was in one of the prisons of this city an Italian who had been convicted of murder, who was under sentence of death, and whose execution, he understood, was fixed for next Monday. He wished to call the attention of the Home Secretary to the fact that at the trial of this individual, Mr. Shaw, the senior surgeon of the Middlesex Hospital, in which institution the prisoner had been for some time, was subpœnaed by the Crown as a witness. Mr. Shaw attended in Court and expected to be called, but the counsel for the Crown, having ascertained that the evidence of Mr. Shaw would be in favour of the prisoner, refused or neglected to call him and to place his
 1870 1871 laches
 MR. BRIGHT said, that having had occasion sometimes to go across to Ireland, he bad often expressed to his friends how glad he was that he was not an Irish Member, for he could never forget the miserable steamboat accommodation existing between the two countries. He had very little doubt that if this were under American rule that such a disgraceful state of things would not be suffered for a moment to endure. The Bill should certainly receive his support, as he believed through its instrumentality, at all events a partial remedy would be introduced.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR said, in that case, he felt it his duty to move that the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR said, he thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer had committed a great error in proposing to contract a loan upon the terms contained in this Bill. If the information he had received was correct, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had he given the public the opportunity of taking up the loan, might have readily obtained 20,000,000 l. "That, instead of the loan of 16,000,000 l. s. d. l.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR said that, finding there were so few Members present, and much apathy on their part to prevent a press of taxation, he should, under the circumstances, withdraw his Motion.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR said, he should not be doing his duty as an independent Member if he did not oppose the proposed increased duties on tea, sugar, and coffee. He believed that there was not a cottage in the United Kingdom in which this increased taxation would not be felt most grievously. Considering the high duties to which these articles were already subjected, he looked with alarm on the consequences of the measure proposed. Had the right hon. Gentleman raised 20,000,000 l. l. s. s. 1901
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR said, that he was satisfied with having entered his protest against the loan, and he would therefore withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR said, he wished for some explanation as to the difference in the payment of interest.
 MR. VANCE said, he was inclined to give but a comparatively qualified assent to the Motion for the second reading. Indeed, as the Bill was framed, the Dublin Chamber of Commerce had the strongest possible objection to it. However, as, through the instrumentality of that body, certain modifications had been introduced
 1866
 MR. HENLEY said, he would suggest the postponement of the clause. He doubted whether the chances of health were as good in the places named by the noble Lord as at home, and he, therefore, hoped some time would be given for considering the proposal contained in this clause.
 MR. HEYWORTH said, he feared it was very likely the country would be obliged to return to the imposition of protective duties should war last any length of time.
 MR. HEYWORTH said, if the people had been well informed on the subject of these changes, he was sure they would have preferred the income tax to indirect
 1903
 MR. BLACKBURN said, he would suggest that the Government should undertake to introduce a clause on the subject to which the hon. Member for Lancaster (Mr. Gregson) had referred.
 MR. BLACKBURN , in moving as an Amendment that the Bill be read a second time that day six months, said, he would not occupy the time of the House by dwelling upon the advantages of education, or the importance of bringing it within the reach of the children of the poorer classes, a matter on which all were agreed. While, however, the importance, the advantages, and the necessity of rendering education available to those classes were evident, he thought the fact that three Bills had been introduced on the subject by very distinguished Members of that House, each proposing different systems, showed the difficulty of establishing any plan which might not be open to numer-
 1906 1907 "And whereas instruction in the principles of religious knowledge and the reading of the Holy Scriptures, as heretofore in use in the parochial and other schools in that country, is consonant to the opinions and religious profession of a great body of the people, while at the same time ordinary secular instruction has been, and should be, available to children of all denominations," &c. 1908 1909 1910 1911 "It shall be lawful for the Committee of Council to alter or modify, in so far as they may consider it
 1912
 MR. SPOONER said, he agreed that friendly societies should be left to make their own rules; but Parliament had prevented that, by compelling them to retain as members men who enrolled in the militia, and who formerly, by that very circumstance, lost their right of membership.
 MR. HILDYARD said, he thought they should not be anticipating these questions; but if they did, they should take as much care of the interests of the colonies as they did of foreigners.
 CAPTAIN LAFFAN said, he wished to point out the impolicy of imposing differential duties on sugar, and he must complain also, that this was often conducted so as to be more favourable to the London than the country merchants. Why should discriminating duties be put upon sugar any more than upon tea or coffee, which differed as much in quality? The sugar-producing colonies felt this grievance severely; and these colonists had no one to represent them in that House. Those planters who sent their sugar to market in a slovenly condition escaped with a low rate of duty, while those who produced fine sugars were taxed heavily. The duty, in fact, operated as a tax upon improvement. There was a large class in this country who had an
 1905
 MR. GREGSON proposed to add to the clause the following words:—
 "That the duties be made payable on coffee, sugar, &c., until the 5th day of April inclusive, which shall first happen after the end of twelve months from the date of a definitive treaty of peace with Russia; from which last-mentioned date the same duties shall be paid as were payable previous to the passing of this Act."
 MR. WALPOLE said, he thought the learned Lord had founded his speech on one or two transparent fallacies. His argument seemed intended to show that those who resisted measures like this were enemies to reform, and were constantly raising up impediments to education; but was this a fair inference? Nobody knew better than the learned Lord, that since 1696, the Scotch system of education had introduced into that country, according to the language of the Acts of Council, instruction in godliness, in civility, in learning, and in knowledge; that the people of that country had been enabled, by means of that system, to go from the rural districts to the universities, where many of them had been raised to the highest honours, and that all of them had been trained morally and intellectually to a high standard. One out of every seven and a half of the people of Scotland were at present being educated under that system; and, according to Mr. Kay Shuttleworth, one in seven of the population constituted a fair proportion of the people who ought to be receiving education at any one time. The learned Lord Advocate, however, appeared to say that the people of Scotland had got tired of a system under which all this had been hitherto accomplished, and he now desired to alter it completely. How was it, then, that 1,800 heritors entreated the House to extend but not to suppress the present system? How did it happen that out of thirty-two counties in Scotland, nineteen or twenty had expressed
 1929 1930
 MR. SOTHERON said, he would suggest that the clause should be postponed, in order that it might be further considered.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY trusted that his hon. Friend (Mr. Gregson), after the observation of the right hon. Gentleman, would withdraw his Amendment. He considered that the colonial interest should have some hope held out to it, that after the war it would be put on the same footing as before the war.
 MR. BAXTER said, he was sorry that he should have unintentionally mistaken the purport of the hon. Gentleman's remarks. The hon. Gentleman had dwelt upon the fact that the Free Church synod of Glasgow and Ayr had pronounced against this Bill. But he did not tell the House that on the occasion when these resolutions were passed, not more than twenty-three out of 300 members of the synod attended the meeting. Great stress had been laid during the debate upon the benefit conferred upon Scotland by these schools. He was not about to deny this, but it did not follow that because these schools, under the direction of the Church,
 1917 1918
 MR. BAXTER said, that the hon. Member who had just resumed his seat had said that this was a Free Church measure. Now that was not a correct statement, for he believed that it was much more ardently desired by the Dissenters than the Free Church.
 MR. KIRK said, he should support the Bill. There were at present three most imperfect communications with Dublin daily. This was the first time in the history of the two countries that a feasible means of communication had been proposed. The company undertook that the journey between London and Dublin should be accomplished in twelve hours.
 MR. MICHELL would be satisfied if the words "or ground" were left out.
 MR. MICHELL said, he thought the Budget was as good a one as could have been produced under the circumstances, had it not been for the tax upon chicory. He must complain that the tax was proposed and explained, not by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, but by the Secretary for the Treasury. He considered that the tax was one of protection, but he did not see how it was to be collected. He thought some explanation ought to have been given before the tax was imposed. The tax was not alluded to by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his financial statement, but it bad been placed on the Resolutions by the Secretary for the Treasury. He was not aware that this was the custom of the House, and he hoped that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would withdraw it.
 MR. MICHELL said, that the chicory must be ground before it could be used, and that there was then a duty upon it.
 MR. MONSELL said, he had submitted the notice of the hon. and gallant Member's question to the Director General of the Ordnance, who had informed him that all the fusees for the 10-inch mortars sent from Woolwich had been made in 1853 and 1854, that all the 13-inch mortar fusees also were of the new period of manufacture, but that those sent from Malta were probably of an earlier date, though he was unable to give the particulars. It was the custom to use restowed powder for filling the shells, on account of its being softer in grain than the other powder. With regard to the third question, he was happy to say that the pattern fusees made
 1869
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  moved to leave out the last proviso of Clause 39, which was to the following effect—
 "Provided also, that no exemption from stamp duty, other than such as is contained in section 8 of the Act passed in the Session of Parliament holden in the 6th and 7th years of the reign of His Majesty King William IV., chap. 32, shall extend to any Benefit Building Society."
 MR. WILKINSON said, a Chancellor of the Exchequer could often do only what he could do, and not what it would be the most advisable to do. [The hon. Member here read an extract from a speech of Mr. Gladstone, in which the right hon. Gentleman was reported to say that he anticipated it would be necessary, if the war continued, to have recourse again to indirect taxation.] It was important at this particular period that no misunderstanding should exist on such a vital question as free trade, and he hoped, therefore, the right hon. Gentleman would give an explanation to the Committee.
 MR. OTWAY said, he rose to order. He was a young Member of the House, but he respectfully submitted that the noble Viscount had used words which were altogether unparliamentary, when he charged another Member with stating that which was "false and calumnious." Only that very evening an hon. Member opposite (Colonel Knox) had already been obliged to retract similar expressions—and he (Mr. Otway) hoped that as long as the present Speaker presided over the deliberations of that House, the noble Viscount would not be permitted to indulge in such language. [ Cries of "Order," and much excitement.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL said, that under the regulations now in force an officer, whose horse was lost whilst in course of being used for public purposes, was entitled to compensation. Whether compensation would be given under the circumstances specified would, of course, depend upon the nature of the case in which the claim was made, and no individual case had been yet brought to his knowledge.
 GENERAL PEEL said, he regretted extremely to be obliged to call the attention of the House to another passage of the speech delivered by the hon. Member for Aylesbury at Liverpool, to which the hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr. Ewart) had already adverted. But he thought the House would agree with him that when an accusation was made against an officer holding the distinguished position of General Commanding in Chief, that he had been guilty of scandalous conduct in reference to promotions in the army, still more especially when his own son was concerned, and when an opportunity had been afforded to the hon. Member of retracting this statement, and he had refused to do so—then that an opportunity should be afforded him in his place in that House, of repeating the accusation, and stating the grounds on which he made it. He had no personal feeling against the hon. Member; and nobody could regret more than he did, that the hon. Member bad not availed himself of the opportunity afforded him to correct his error and apologise for the insinuations he had made by the very temperate and excellent letter of the hon. and gallant officer the Member for Wigan (Colonel Lindsay). No one could approve more highly than he did the conduct of those who came forward to bring accusations against persons in high station, if they believed the truth of the charges, and were satisfied of the evidence on which they made them; but on the other hand
 1875 "I will give you an instance of a friend of mine, a gentleman who served throughout all those battles, and distinguished himself most signally; he came over to this country sick and almost dead. There were two men above him, officers in one of the guards' regiments, who had never left England; they were members of high families and they were promoted without purchase; but my friend was a poor man, and they made him pay 3,000 l. 1876 1877 "15, Great Stanhope Street, April 25, 1855. "Sir, I have read a speech of yours made at Liverpool in which you charge me with conduct so corrupt in the exercise of military duties, in the case of the promotion of my son, to the injury of Lieutenant Colonel Wilson, of the same regiment, that you have thought proper to characterise the transaction as a most scandalous one. I most distinctly declare your statement to be utterly untrue. My son's correspondence with Lieutenant Colonel Wilson having closed, and the letters being in your friend's possession, I have now to require that you will immediately retract the unfounded charge made in your speech, or be prepared to show upon what authority you have preferred it.—I remain your obedient servant, "HARDINGE. "A. H. Layard, Esq., M.P." "9, Little Ryder Street, April 26, 1855. "My Lord, In reply to your letter I beg to refer you to  Hart's Army List "I have the honour, &c. "A. LAYARD. "The Lord Hardinge." "15, Great Stanhope Street, April 26. "Sir, I have this evening received your letter of this date. "I must remind you that I do not complain of your opinion that promotion in the army by purchase is scandalous. "You accused me in your speech at Liverpool of having promoted my son without purchase, to the injury of Lieutenant Colonel Wilson, who had
 1878 "This charge you decline to retract, although your friend Lieutenant Colonel Wilson admits that he attaches no blame to the Horse Guards authorities. "Your assertion that the rule applied by me in Lieutenant Colonel Mackinnon's case has been violated in others, is contrary to the truth. "It is a waste of time to hold any further correspondence with one who makes such unfounded accusations, and who obstinately persists therein." "Your obedient servant, "HARDINGE. "A. Layard, Esq., M.P." "In 1847, a majority by purchase having become vacant in the 73rd Foot, stationed at the Cape of Good Hope, Captain Baker, the senior captain of that regiment for purchase, was promoted to the vacancy on the 12th of November, but was killed in action on the 13th of that month; his promotion was accordingly cancelled in the  Gazette "In August, 1854, the retirement of Captain Saunderson (who was brought in to sell) from the 4th Foot, having created a vacant company by purchase, Lieutenant Skinner, the senior of his rank for purchase in that regiment, was promoted to the vacancy. This officer, however, died on the 14th of August, 1854, and the 4th Regiment being then stationed at Gallipoli, at that date no intimation of his promotion had been in any manner received there; on which ground the appointment was cancelled in  The Gazette 1879 "Ensign and Lieutenant Disbrowe was promoted by purchase on the 3rd of November, 1854, in succession to Captain and Lieutenant Colonel Cumming, who retired. It having, however, been reported that Mr. Disbrowe was killed on the 5th November, before he could have known of his promotion, an officer was brought into the regiment from the Rifle Brigade, by purchase, and the money was returned to Mr. Disbrowe's family." "Horse-Guards, 25th of April, 1855. "Colonel Crombie, of the Coldstream Guards, returned to England in October, 1854, on the recommendation of a medical board, having been seized with a serious illness in the camp near Varna in the month of August. "On the 18th of December he forwarded to Lord Strafford a certificate from Dr. Ferguson to the effect that he was still labouring under the consequences of his former illness, and expressing an opinion that a return to the arduous duties in the East might be considered as certain death to him. Under these circumstances he applied to be placed upon half-pay for a time, stating that he had served thirty years on full pay. "Lord Strafford, in forwarding this application, expressed a hope that some arrangement might be made for bringing in a lieutenant-colonel from half-pay who would sell out, and that the vacancy might thus be filled by promotion in the regiment. This, however, could not be done, as, in the first place, there was at that time no lieutenant-colonel on half-pay who had applied to be brought on full pay to realise the value of his commission; and, in the next, there was a similar case of the lieutenant-colonel of the 51st Regiment, who was anxious to be placed on half-pay, and the officers of that regiment, from the length of their services, had a prior claim to what is considered an advantage, namely, the step of lieutenant-colonel going by purchase through the regiment, instead of a lieutenant-colonel being brought from the half-pay and no promotion taking place. "The applications, however, in both cases stood over for a time, that if any lieutenant-colonel on half-pay should offer to sell, advantage might be taken of the opportunity to give promotion in both regiments. On the 29th of January, however, Colonel Crombie renewed his application, and applied for some leave of absence, in case any further delay was likely to take place. "Lieutenant-Colonel Blackburn, on half-pay, had by that time applied to sell, but it was not thought fair towards the old officers of the 51st Regiment to allow the promotion to go into the Guards, and put in an officer as lieutenant-colonel of the 51st to remain in it, and Lord Hardinge
 1880 "It may be added that the date of the submission to the Queen of Lord Burghersh's removal from the staff pay to the Coldstream Guards, vice Crombie, was the 7th of February, 1855. "At that time the only death of a general officer which had been reported at the Horse Guards was that of General the Hon. T. E. Capel, who died on the 3rd of February. "Two more were required for the promotion of Colonel the Hon. A. Upton to be a major-general; these occurred, one on the 7th and the other on the 9th of February, namely. Sir Patrick Stuart and Lieutenant-General Sir William Eustace, but there was no idea at the time of the probability of the death of either of these officers, and it so happened that, by Lord Burghersh having been brought in as he was, Lieutenant-Colonel the lion. A. Hardinge lost a step."
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL said, he was glad that he had been preceded by his hon. and gallant relative, for after the statement which he had just made, and the correspondence he had read, no one could help coming to the conclusion that there had been hardly a stronger instance in which, what he must call, a disposition to damage and discredit the Government had led an hon. Member to distort the correct view of a question, and to blind himself to its just and true merits. With regard to the first question which had been put to him—namely, as to the appointment of a relative of the hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr. E wart) to the staff—he
 1881 1882 1883 1884 1885
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL said, he thought that, as notices of other questions bearing upon similar topics had been given, it would be better that they should be put before he made any statement to the House.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL   (showing the Return):
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL : It is headed "Supplemental Return."
 SIR GEORGE GREY said, he was sure the House would feel the danger and inconvenience of entering into a discussion with reference to a criminal trial which had taken place according to the ordinary law of the land. He could only state that a representation, signed by several medical gentlemen, with reference to the case to which the hon. Member for Manches-
 1872 laches.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY said, he wished to ask the hon. Member for Glasgow, who, as he understood, proposed to raise 20,000,000 l. l. l. l. 1902 l.
 MR. CAIRNS said, be did not rise to ask the House to reject the Bill, but he wished that the second reading should be deferred. The Bill went to authorise the London and North-Western Railway Company to build and own steam-boats, in conjunction with the Dublin Steam-Packet Company, to ply between Holyhead and Dublin. But there was not a word in the Bill to show how the communication was
 1865
 MR. MOWBRAY said, he was aware of the case of an assurance office, which would not insure the life of a militiaman, who was liable to be called upon to serve in the tropics or at the seat of war, without his paying an additional premium. Why, then, should the same power be refused to a friendly society, which, if properly managed, should be regulated upon the same principles as an assurance office?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON said, that this measure had been discussed with so much ability by Members on both sides who possessed the advantage of local knowledge in relation to it, and especially so by the hon. Member for Stirlingshire (Mr. Blackburn), who had addressed them that night for the first time, that it would be improper in him to detain the House
 1920 1921 1922
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON said, he was quite ready to state to his hon. Friend what he had stated privately to several hon. Members, and which he ought to have stated on the second reading of the Bill. He had reconsidered the reasons which bad induced him to propose a union rather than a parochial rate, and he was of opinion that he could accomplish the object he had in view without adopting an arrangement which, in the case of parishes already sufficiently provided with school accommodation, would involve some hardship, if they were called upon to pay a further charge in order to make up the deficiencies in another place. On this ground he should, in Committee on the Bill, propose that the rating should be parochial, and not union.
 MR. ATHERTON said, he saw no necessity for this proviso, which was an exception foreign to the enactment upon which it was engrafted.
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE said, that, in the case of that particular company, such a power had been given upon the recommendation of a Committee presided over by the late Sir Robert Peel, but it was granted under certain limitations, and the effect of the Bill now proposed would be to extend that power to other companies, without extending the limitations which were considered prudent by the Committee to which he had referred.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON proposed a new clause, authorising, in consequence of the increased risk of death in the case of militiamen serving abroad, that friendly societies should be authorised to increase the periodical payments from men so serving abroad.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON said, his
 1935
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I cannot but express the deep regret which I feel, and which I am sure is partaken by the majority of this House, at the position in which the hon. Member for Aylesbury has this evening placed himself. Every man is at full liberty—and he does but perform his duty in exercising that liberty—to bring forward against public men any charge in respect to which he feels that he stands on good grounds, and in justification of which he can bring forward proofs which will honestly convince himself and any reasonable man that his charges are founded upon fact. The hon. Member for Aylesbury was, no doubt, perfectly justified in making the charges which he has brought forward against my noble Friend at the head of the army, if his conscientious impressions led him to believe that he had good grounds for the accusations; but, after the proofs and de-
 1895
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I repeat what I was about to say, that when it was proved that the charges which had been made through the hon. Member—if he wishes it to be put in that manner—were utterly false and calumnious, I should have expected that a due regard for himself and for this House would have impelled the hon. Member to acknowledge that he had been misled in this matter, and induced him to bear an honourable testimony to the high character and services of that distinguished individual whom his erroneous statements were intended to disparage. In this expectation I have been disappointed. The hon. Gentleman bas brought charges against a man and against a class. He has brought charges against my noble Friend at the head of the army, which, I repeat, are unfounded and calumnious. No doubt the hon. Gentleman has been made the mouthpiece of others, who wish to undermine and overthrow the character of that distinguished man. Lord Hardinge is not a man who has risen either by favour or by accident to the situation which he so honourably fills. Lord Hardinge is essentially a soldier. He has won his way to the illustrious position which he holds through many a long campaign—through many a hard-
 1896 1897
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the income tax included persons holding public offices, employments, and profits under the Crown; also persons holding offices paid from local rates, or under municipal bodies, as well as officers in the navy and army. Besides these, there were the civil servants of the Crown, whose salaries were subject to annual deductions on account of the Superannuation Fund. Those appointed since the Superannuation Act passed were not subject to the income tax. With respect to those who had taken office subsequent to the passing of that Act, Government were not prepared to make any exemption, inasmuch as if they did so they would soon find it necessary, on the ground of equity, to extend a similar exemption to other classes of public officers under schedule B. With respect to the latter part of the question, the subject was under consideration, but he was not prepared to lay on the table any measure regarding it.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had explained, in former stages of the Bill, the grounds on which this clause was proposed by Her Majesty's Government. When called on to effect a loan for 16,000,000 l., 1957 l. l. l., l. l. l. 1958 l., l. l. l., l.; l. l., l. 1959 l.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he should feel it incumbent on him, if this matter went to a division, to vote with the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir F. Kelly), in conformity with the strong opinion he entertained of the inexpediency of provisions of this nature. It was, in his opinion, beyond the legitimate province of the House of Commons of 1855 to undertake to determine what should be the financial policy of a future Parliament ten or fifteen years hence. Nor did he think that such a course had any tendency to secure a respect for the decisions of that House, either now or at any future time. He denied the right of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to fall back for support upon the Sinking Fund Acts of Mr. Pitt, because his right hon. Friend objected to the principle on which those Acts were founded. It was no doubt very natural for Parliament to persevere in taking measures for maintaining a sinking fund when there was an idea prevalent that some magical effect in the reduction of the debt was attributable to it. But, at the present period, when it was discovered not only that a sinking fund had no magical operation at all, but in a fiscal point of view was an extremely impolitic and wasteful proceeding, it was not to be supposed that Parliament would continue to act upon the principle with similar constancy. He should not regret to see a division take place on this subject, because those hon. Gentlemen who supported the clause would, if they should have the honour of sitting in Parliament when the clause ought to come into operation, feel bound, it was to be hoped, in honour, to support the repayment of the debt, whatever pressure might be put upon them by their constituents for the reduction of taxation in preference. He had no doubt that his right hon. Friend and himself, though voting to-night on different sides, would then be found supporting the Chancellor of the Exchequer of the day in providing an adequate surplus for the re-
 1960 l. l. l. l. 1961 l. l. l., l. l. 1962 l.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Gentleman had not correctly represented his feeling in the matter.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was quite true, as the hon. and learned Gentleman who moved the Amendment had stated, that the adoption of his proposal would produce only a slight diminution of the revenue, but it would also be a matter of very slight consideration so far as the taxpayers themselves were concerned, for upon an income of 150 l. s. d., d.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he wished to know if the principle of the Amendment which the right hon. Baronet had just sanctioned in respect to incomes between 100 l. l.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the income of the English farmer was assessed at half his rental, and the income of the Scotch farmer at one-third. On this income so assessed the tax was levied. In those cases where the percentage in the rental came under 150 l. l., 1978
 THE CHANCELLOR of THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the law upon the subject was perfectly similar in England and Scotland. In England, if the landlord was charged with any rate, such as sewers and improvement rates, he was not entitled to deduct their amount from his income tax assessment. The law in Scotland was similar, but it happened in Scotland that certain rates, which in England were usually paid by the tenant, fell upon the landlord. That was, however, a matter of arrangement between the landlord and tenant; but with respect to the law, he would repeat there was no difference between England and Scotland.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The Committee will, I doubt not, remember that when this Bill was last before us, a question was raised on Clauses 4, 5, 6, and 7, relative to registration and securities. A discussion took place on the structure of those clauses, and it was pointed out that certain inconveniences would arise under their operation; that, in certain cases, a sort of publication not coming within the range of the original Acts would be included, and that, in certain other cases, particular publications that did come within the operation of the original Acts would be excluded. I felt that these remarks had in them some foundation; and, though the clauses referred to were framed on the principle of removing penalties and securing the obligation of registration and securities merely by the operation of seeking stamps, I thought it was better to reconsider the matter, and
 1979
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : All particular publications that are not newspapers.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had now to propose the clause of which he had given notice, limiting the retransmission by post of periodical publications. He proposed this clause as being a reasonable limitation in the right of retransmission. In practice it was found that persons in possession of newspapers, and wishing to send them to a distance, transmitted them by post merely to be
 1980
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that it would no doubt be necessary carefully to examine and compare all the clauses of the Bill. He did not think that there was any error in the present clause, but he was much obliged to the hon. and learned Gentleman for drawing his attention to the subject.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that it was; but beyond fifteen days from the date of publication no newspaper would be entitled to the privilege of transmission through the post. If the Committee considered the period of fifteen days too limited, it might be extended.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  next proposed a clause for determining how questions as to periodical publications should be decided. It provided that, so far as referred to their transmission through the post, the question should be referred to the determination of the Postmaster General, whose decision, with the consent of the Treasury, should be final.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the present law provided that there should be two registered parties subject to legal proceedings, and might be made defendants to any civil action.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : At all events they were subject to criminal proceedings, and it had been represented to him as a hardship that, while they were thus subject, individually, to be made defendants, no relative right was given them of suing. Any two registered proprietors were subject to a judgment in an action. He apprehended that the principal persons registered would be the printer and publisher, and no doubt they would have sufficient funds to give security for costs. The object of this clause was to place them in the same position with regard to suing as that in which they were when they were being sued.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that it was a clause in which the Government had no interest whatever, but it had been suggested with a view of doing away with a hardship existing under the present law. He had no objection, in consequence of the arguments of the hon. and learned Gentleman, to postpone its further consideration till the third reading.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Those clauses have been withdrawn for the present. I now beg to move the clause which proposes to give the protection of a copyright of twenty-four hours on certain articles in newspapers. The present Copyright Act in its interpretation clause includes newspapers, and it certainly appears to have been the intention of the Legislature in passing that Act to give the full benefit of copyright to newspapers as well as to all other classes of printed pub-
 1984 1985 animo furandi "The proprietors of every newspaper shall, for the purpose of protection against piracy, be entitled to a copyright in every original article, letter, paragraph, communication, and composition which shall be for the first time published in such newspaper in this country; and if any person shall, within twenty-four hours after the first publication of any original article, letter, paragraph, communication, or composition in any such newspaper, print or publish any copy of such original article, letter, paragraph, communication, or composition, or of any material part thereof, or any colourable abridgment or alteration of the same, such person shall for every such offence forfeit a sum of not less than 5 l., l., 1986 l., l.,
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he entirely agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just spoken as to the want of force in the argument advanced by the Chancellor of die Exchequer—namely, that he was prepared to trust to the good feeling of the editors of newspapers in carrying out this clause. Without reverting to the able remarks of the hon. and learned Member for Enniskillen, who, he believed, had shown that the clause could never be practically carried into effect, he thought there was another ground of objection to the clause. He could not understand on what ground any man was to
 1992
 MR. CHAIRMAN  said, that the noble Lord could not move his proviso until the Committee had decided whether the clause should be read a second time.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL : Sir, there are, no doubt, considerable difficulties involved in the question of a newspaper copyright; but at the same time, it would have been very improper if my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in introducing a measure like the present, had not attempted to deal with it. The subject is one which should be discussed upon its real merits, and stripped of all that species of misrepresentation in which hon. Gentlemen so much delight to indulge. There is nothing at all about news in the clause, and all these humorous statements which have been made represent that the clause is directed entirely to one object, whereas it is directed to another and a totally different one. If any one were desired to put his finger upon that portion of the literature of the present day in which, as a matter of composition, he may take a just pride, he might surely point to that which is called the ephemeral literature of the day—as if on that head it were less deserving of encouragement—and he would find that the greatest labour, expense, and anxiety are employed upon these sources of information. I desire hon. Members to ask themselves this question—is any one prepared to deny that, as soon as the change proposed by this Bill is effected, he does not expect that, day by day, a flood of publications will issue forth unstamped, paying no price for original matter, and feeding entirely upon the present established newspapers? I will ask my right hon. Friend the Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) whether he does not expect that there will be established newspapers appearing within a few hours—probably within one or two—after the publication of the London newspapers, containing the most important articles and communications, which the London press has gathered with infinite labour and vast expense? My attention has been directed to this subject from the personal experience I have had. Two or three years ago there was started a paper called  The Politician, 1998 "If any person shall, within twenty-four hours after the first publication of any original article, letter paragraph, communication, or composition in any such newspaper, print and publish any copy of such original article, letter, paragraph, communication, or composition, or of any material part thereof, or any colourable abridgment or alteration of the same." 1999
 LORD STANLEY  said, that after the last few words which had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General, it was almost unnecessary to continue the discussion, because he thought they could pretty well conjecture what was the meaning of those words. The real point they had to consider was, whether they could draw a distinction between news and original matter in a newspaper. He did not imagine that on the principle of the clause there was any great difference of opinion between Members on any side of the House. They had admitted a copyright in books, whether published anonymously or otherwise: and they ought consequently to be prepared to admit a copyright in all original compositions properly registered, whether anonymous or no. On the other hand, he supposed it would not be affirmed that the mere circumstance of making public a fact which had already taken place was a fair subject for a copyright. The ques-
 2000
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General, speaking with more candour than courtesy, had disposed of all the arguments used on his (Mr. Bentinck's) side of the House against the clause, by stating that they were mere "misrepresentations which Gentlemen on that side of the House delighted to indulge in." Without troubling the House with a repetition of these arguments, he would tell the Solicitor General that it was he who had misrepresented the arguments used on his (Mr. Bentinck's) side of the House. The Solicitor General had also stated that part of the due administration of justice must be put on one side, in order to carry out this clause. This, coming from so high a legal authority, was a conclusive argument against the clause, and after such an admission there could be little doubt as to how the Committee would deal with it.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I apprehend, Sir, there is no doubt that, by the law as it at present stands, newspapers do enjoy a copyright for the original articles and other paragraphs inserted by them. In law, I conceive, it makes no difference whether a publication is anonymous or appears with the name of the author. It is a new doctrine—new to me at least—which I have heard preached to-night, that it is necessary, in order to enjoy a copyright, that the name of the author should appear. Take, for instance, the case of an encyclopædia. An encyclopædia publishing anonymous articles unquestionably enjoys the same copyright as a poem, a history, or an original work published with the name of the author. It has, however, been found in practice that the greatest difficulties exist in enforcing the legal claim to copyright which a newspaper enjoys. A newspaper proprietor can neither, in effect, apply to a court of equity for an injunction to prevent the publication of an article, when that publication is so ephemeral, nor can he, with any probability of success, enter an action for damages. In introducing a measure, therefore, by which the number of cheap newspapers would be largely augmented, it was felt by Her Majesty's Government to be a matter of common justice to the proprietors of existing newspapers to give them an effectual remedy by which their present rights might be enforced. With that view the clause now under the consideration of the Committee was prepared and submitted to them, as it was thought but just to guard
 2009
 LORD STANLEY  understood that the principle which his hon. Friend (Mr. Milnes) wished to affirm was this—that everything in the shape of a newspaper should be transmitted through the post at the same charge of 1 d., 2020 2021 d., d., d. 2022
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he feared that, if the proposition of the hon. Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe), that a uniform principle should be applied to the postage of newspapers and other articles carried through the post were practically enforced, nearly the whole of the present system would have to be abolished. If they compared the rates of charges on letters, newspapers, books, and other printed publications, not being newspapers, they would find the discrepancy so great that, if it should be the pleasure of Parliament to reduce them to a uniform scale, it would be necessary to sweep away all existing rates, and commence  de novo. d., 2032 d. d. d. 2033 2034
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that if he understood correctly the Act to which the hon. and learned Gentleman referred, its provisions would extend to all newspapers, both stamped and unstamped.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I cannot go into details, but the Turkish Plenipotentiaries were of the same mind as the Plenipotentiaries of Great Britain, France, and Austria.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : In reply, Sir, to the questions which have been put to me by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli), I have to state, in the first place, that I do not think it is for me to decide what papers shall be laid upon the table of the House. I may say, however, that I believe Her Majesty's Government intend very shortly to lay upon the table the protocols of the conferences which have taken place at Vienna. Those protocols will convey to the House information of the substance of the negotiations that have taken place. Perhaps I may say a few words more, without intending to go into any detail as to the negotiations. The first meeting of the Conference was on the 15th of March. The negotiations with respect to the first two of the four points with which the House is acquainted lasted until the 26th of that month. On the 26th of March the third point came under consideration. It was suggested by the Plenipotentiaries of Austria that the Plenipotentiaries of Russia should themselves make a proposal calculated to satisfy the demands of Russia and the exigencies of the case. The Plenipotentiaries of Russia replied that they had no instructions to do so, but they asked for time to refer to their Government. The consequence was that the Conference was then adjourned, and that no meeting for the transaction of business took place until the answer was received from St. Petersburg. On the 17th of April another conference was held, when the Plenipotentiaries of Russia informed the Conference that they had received instructions from their Government not to take the initiative of any propositions, but that they were ready to hear and discuss any proposal which might be submitted to the Conference. The Representatives of the allied Powers then requested forty-eight hours to consider the form in which they should make their proposal, and on the 19th of April the Plenipotentiaries of France and of Great Britain, supported by the Plenipotentiaries of Austria, laid their proposition before the Conference. The Russian Plenipo-
 1953
 LORD LOVAINE  said, he must beg to explain that he had not proposed to compel the authors of any articles, except those who claimed the right which would be conferred by the present clause, to sign their names. No man was more ready than himself to acknowledge the talent which was displayed by the writers in the public press, but it was the maxim of English law that no man could have a right in another's wrong, and upon that principle lie thought that leading articles in a newspaper which contained libellous matter upon individuals ought not to come within the protection of the law.
 LORD LOVAINE  said, that this was the first time in the history of this country when a copyright was asked for articles of the most ephemeral description, which were witten one day and forgotten the next; and certainly if the press of our day needed this protection it must have become weaker than it used to be. Recollecting what the daily newspapers assumed to be their functions, how they controlled, or attempted to control, Ministers of State, and interfered even in the operations of the army, affording information to the enemy on points which it was of the highest importance should be concealed from him—in which reprehensible practice, according to the statement of a late Cabinet Minister, they could not be restrained—it was rather
 1996 bonâ fide
 MR. DISRAELI : I am very glad, Sir, to hear the right hon. Gentleman has come to the conclusion of withdrawing the clause. He has told us that as the law now stands newspapers have a right to copyright. No doubt there are many rights which exist at present, but which are never asserted. There is the right of free warren, for instance. I know many individuals who possess that right, but I do not suppose there is any one who would exercise it. The hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) has spoken of our press as compared with the American press, and has alluded to the fears of those who apprehend that very injurious consequences are about to ensue to our press in consequence of this measure becoming law. Now, I believe myself that the tendency of this alteration in the law is to assimilate the press of this country to the American press. But the tone of the American press is not occasioned by laws of this kind, but that tone is lower than the tone of the English press because it is the press of a younger country, and, therefore, there are many influences at work in England which have elevated, and which will raise for a considerable time, the tone of the English press. But the tendency of this legislation is no doubt to lower the tone of the English press, because that tendency is to lower its enterprise, the amount of capital invested in it, and the degree of talent enlisted in the exercise of its functions. We have, however, at the present moment opportunities of counteracting to a certain degree what we may consider the injurious effects of the proposition of the Govern-
 2010 The Times 2011 2012 Thomas à Kempis? Whole Duty of Man? Thomas à Kempis Whole Duty of Man Waverley? Robinson Crusoe? A Vindication of Natural Society? 2013 Essay on Man 2014
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he was sorry that the hon. and learned Gentleman disagreed from him, but he had in his possession a copy of the first edition of the  Essay on Man,
 MR. DISRAELI : I wish, Sir, to inquire whether, before the protocols of the conference are laid upon the table—and I trust they will be produced with all possible despatch—Her Majesty's Government have any objection to give us some preliminary papers—for instance, despatches of our Ambassador or Plenipotentiary at Vienna, which will afford us an authentic and official description of what the four points are? The noble Lord will perhaps recollect that at the present moment we have not the four points on the table of the House in an official form. I think, therefore, it would be very much for the convenience of the House if, without loss of time, we were put in possession of these preliminary papers, so that, before the pro-
 1954 data
 MR. DISRAELI : I am afraid, Sir, I did not make my question sufficiently clear to the noble Lord. I have no doubt that when the protocols are in our possession we shall clearly understand the nature of the four points; but, as the Government have only given a vague promise to produce the protocols, and have not fixed any time when they will be placed on the table, what I wished to know was, whether the noble Lord would have any objection to afford the House at once some authentic knowledge of what time four points of which we have heard so much consist? I should not, of course, press the Government for any private despatches; but if they would lay upon the table the single despatch in which the nature of the four points was communicated to Her Majesty's Government, so that the House may at once be placed in possession of that information, I think such a course would be highly satisfactory to hon. Members generally, and could not be attended with any inconvenience to Her Majesty's service.
 MR. DISRAELI : I wish only for complete and satisfactory information. The noble Lord repeats that he will lay before the House as soon as possible the protocols of the conferences, but does he mean at the same time to produce the correspondence which took place between our Plenipotentiaries at Vienna and Her Majesty's Government in pursuance of the treaty of December 2, which in fact led to these
 1955
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, seeing the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonial Department once more among us, I take the liberty of inquiring whether it is the intention of the noble Lord to lay any papers upon the table with respect to his late mission, or to make any statement to the House with regard to it, and, if so, when? And whether it is his intention, by any other means, to afford the House any information as to the proceedings of the last two months at Vienna? I should be glad to hear from the Government what their intentions are on this subject.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the observations of the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Treasury are not satisfactory. He says the House approves the principle of borrowing money upon terminable annuities; that the proposition contained in this clause is analogous to such a principle; and he therefore calls upon us to support it. But it is an assumption on the part of the hon. Gentleman to suppose that the House has sanctioned the principle of terminable annuities. If this House has sanctioned that principle, why has not the Government acted upon it? It is very true we have had observations made here—I have often thought without sufficient consideration—upon the admirable character of the terminable annuity system, and certainly for some short time those observations were made without criticism; but there has been no vote in this House in favour of borrowing money upon that system, and, therefore, I think the hon. Gentleman is not justified in assuming that the principle is one which has the sanction of Parliament. I, for one, entirely agree in the view which has been expressed in this House, and more particularly by the hon. Member for Stoke upon Trent (Mr. J. L. Ricardo), that such a mode of raising a loan is very questionable and suspicious. It may be popular among those who have not given due consideration to the subject, but go into the City, inquire among the capitalists and men of business. They know very well what a terminable annuity means; they know that it is, in fact, borrowing money to create a sinking fund, and they will ascertain in a moment the exact value of your offer, and the premium you are giving for raising money in this form. I trust the House will hesitate before it assents to this 22nd clause. What is it? It is neither more nor less than a recurrence to the system of creating an artificial sinking fund; and to my mind no principle can be more
 1968 l. l. l. l. 1969
 MR. COWAN  said, he wished to direct the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to a case of great inequality connected with the manner in which the income tax was assessed in Scotland as compared with England. In England, the landed proprietor was assessed on the net annual value of his property, after deducting rates and taxes. In Scotland the assessment was made on the gross income. He hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would consider the matter, with a view to the amendment of such a state of things.
 MR. COWAN  said, he thought he owed an apology, or at least an explanation, to the Committee for not having pressed the Amendments of which he had given notice. Having found, however, that those Amendments were unpalatable to the Government, that they were objected to by the late Chancellor of the Exchequer (Mr. Gladstone), and also by the noble Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley), whose manly and independent conduct on this question did him great credit, he felt it would have been very unwise on his part if he had pressed them upon the attention of the Committee. He thought, considering the various parties whose interests were affected, and taking into account also the transition state of the Post Office in connection with the duties it was called upon to discharge, that that House was
 2018 The Illustrated London News, The Illustrated London News The European Magazine The European Magazine The Times The Observer The Morning Chronicle The St. James's Chronicle 2019 The Times d.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he should have great pleasure in seconding the Amendment. He had always opposed the income tax as an innovation, just as he had opposed the establishment of Crystal Palaces, and he was ready to support any mitigation of that impost, in whatever shape it might be proposed. The object of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was to raise money by this Bill; but he only wished that every Member who sat
 1977
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : Anything will be communicated which is of sufficient interest to render it desirable. I was about to say, that when a telegraphic despatch mentioned anything of sufficient interest to render it necessary, desirable, or interesting, to communicate it to the House, I have not the slightest doubt my noble Friend at the head of the Government would do so. After the contemptuous cheer of the hon. Gentleman opposite, I have no objection to state the whole purport of the despatch received to-day. Lord Raglan acknowledges the receipt of a despatch from Lord Panmure, and asks when the Sardinian contingent is to sail.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : Sir, in answer to the questions of the hon. Gentleman, I beg to say that the telegraph is, we believe, complete, except across the Danube. I stated to the House, a few evenings ago, that the telegraph had been laid across from the Crimea to the Turkish
 1949
 MR. E. BALL  said, that he hoped his right hon. Friend the Member for Manchester would excuse him if he did not take his advice. The right hon. Member said, that  The Times d. The Times. The Times. The Times 2030 The Times. The Times. The Times The Times. The Times. The Times The Times. The Times. 2031 The Times. The Times.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he was desirous of making one observation in reply to the remarks of the hon. Member for Kendal (Mr. Glyn), who vindicated the clause upon a ground entirely inconsistent with the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. That right hon. Gentleman had told the House that the clause formed no part of the contract, but might be deal with by the House as it pleased, and by future Houses as they pleased; but the hon. Member for Kendal not only treated it as obligatory in his argument, but hoped it would be made the foundation of an important precedent; and that in each succeeding year, if there should exist a necessity for contracting further loans, a similar clause would be inserted in every Loan Bill, and that all future loans should be redeemed at the rate of 1,000,000 l. 1971
 MR. WARNER : Sir, as the First Lord of the Treasury is not in his place, I beg to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty whether telegraphic communication has been established between the Crimea and any part of the Turkish coast and its principalities; and, if so, what is the date of the latest despatch received from the seat of war? I wish also to ask another question, which I hope will be answered tonight—namely, whether any communication has been received from any source whatever relating to the raising of the siege of Sebastopol?
 MR. WARNER  said, he must protest against the idea that the Post Office had anything to gain by the conveyance of newspapers. It was only in consequence of the legislation of past years, creating a sort of vested right in existing newspapers to be carried by the post, that the present arrangements could be defended. At the same time, he thought it would be a great injustice to attempt to tax a large paper more than a smaller one.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, that in reference to the clause which provides for the repayment of the loan by annual sums of 1,000,000 l. l. l. l. 1956 l.
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he understood the Chancellor of the Exchequer to mean that he intended the law as to registration and giving security to remain applicable to all newspapers. By the Bill as it stood the Government intended to confine the obligation of registering and giving security to those particular publications that chose to avail themselves of the postal advantages proposed to be given; but the effect of the omission of this clause, as he understood it, would be to relieve particular publications from that obligation.
 MR. G. BUTT : Not to civil actions. It relates to actions for libel and not for debt.
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he thought, if the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would consider the laws which were applicable to this class of subjects generally, that he would come to the conclusion that this was a clause which ought not to be adopted. It contained a provision which was perfectly new to the law of the country, and if it were adopted it would apply to no other publication except a newspaper, because no other publication was required to be registered. The effect of the clause was to enable the registered proprietors of newspapers to sue for debts and other contracts in their own names, without joining all the parties in the concern as plaintiffs in the action. But upon what principle was this to be done? If there were a firm of booksellers the partners must all be joined, and what reason was there for taking the proprietors of newspapers out of the operation of the law as it stood? The proposition which was now before the Committee was not properly analogous to that contained in the Joint Stock Act, which enabled proprietors in companies where there were many partners, upon registering themselves and continuing to register any alteration in the firm as it arose, to sue in the name of the registered officer. That Act also provided, if the registered officer failed in his suit, and judgment went against him, that it would be a judgment against all the partners in the concern; so that all would be, as they ought to be, amenable for the judgment obtained against them in the name of their registered officer. In the present case, however, there was no such provision, and the clause standing therefore in the isolated position in which it did was clearly contrary to every principle of existing law, and to every Act of Parliament which had ever been passed for giving facilities to parties for suing and being sued. Suppose that a newspaper were the property of six proprietors, what reason could there be for exempting them from the responsibility of their ownership? Of course he spoke not of the respectable newspapers in the metropolis and throughout the country, the registered proprietors of which would, no doubt, be able to satisfy any judgment which might go against them; but he would take the case of smaller publications, in which it might be convenient to register as the proprietors persons who had no funds whatever, while there were other partners in the concern who might be capable of answering any judgment which
 1982 Vict.
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he wished to direct attention to some confusion which he feared would arise under the Act as it was now proposed to stand, owing to the adoption in different clauses of the terms "periodical publication" and "newspaper," when the same thing was meant. He did not oppose the clause, but he thought that it would be necessary slightly to alter the language, in order to make the different parts of the Bill harmonise.
 MR. G. BUTT  said, that the provision of registration did not limit the right of parties to sue the registered proprietors only, in cases of contract. They might if they pleased, sue all the proprietors. It was, therefore, impossible that this clause could be supported on any principle of law, and he trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would not press it.
 MR. GLYN  said, he hoped that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not accede to the advice given him by the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli). His (Mr. Glyn's) only regret was that 20,000,000 l. bonâ fide l. 1970
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, if it was his intention to make any exception with respect to the income tax chargeable upon the salaries of the civil servants, who are subjected to a charge of 5 per cent in addition to the present income tax (nearly 6 per cent), making together about 11 per centum levied on their limited incomes; also, whether he was prepared to state on what day he will lay on the table of the House the proposed Bill for altering and amending the law respecting the Civil Service Superannuation Fund?
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, the right hon. Gentleman had told them they were about to try an experiment, but he thought it was an experiment which would be tried at the expense of a single establishment. He had objected the other day to the whole conduct of the press, because it was a system of stabbing in the dark, but he equally objected to that House stabbing that establishment in the dark; for there could be no question, after the debate which had taken place, that this was an attack upon a single establishment. If they passed a law burdening one cotton manufactory which produced a greater quantity of cotton than another, they made a direct attack upon that individual manufactory; and this was a precisely similar case. They were going upon a very dangerous principle; they were beginning to indulge private pique under pretence of public virtue. They attacked  The Times The Times; The Times; Morning Herald.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that if the question went to a division he should feel it his duty to vote with the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite; but he so much wished that the financial scheme of the Government, which he approved as a whole, should pass without a division that he hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would consider whether it was worth while to disturb the unanimity of the House by pressing this clause. There was no characteristic of that House which more honourably distinguished it—none which it was of more importance to preserve unsullied—than its strict adherence to the pledges it gave to the public creditor. He therefore saw with regret the House invited to give—he would not say a pledge, but a sort of assurance, which might be differently construed by different persons, and which might lead a future Parliament, for fear they should be charged with a breach of public faith, to do that which they might not consider expedient at the time, or to incur some degree of odium by refusing to carry out the object of the clause, and vote 1,000,000 l.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he thought it would be better for the public to set out in the Bill, when it should be in a state in which it would be safe for the House to pass it, a clause making it apply to all newspapers.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he begged to inquire whether any determination had been come to with respect to the registration?
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he was of opinion that the proposed clause would not accomplish the object which the right hon. Gentleman had so clearly explained—namely, to protect the rights of the proprietors of the principal metropolitan journals. In that object he (Mr. Whiteside) entirely concurred, but it was to the clause to be moved by the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. M. Milnes) that he should give his support, being of opinion that it was unjust to visit with restrictions any journal—he did not care what journal it might be—on account of its success. He regarded, therefore, the clause of the hon. Member for Pontefract more as a matter of benefit to the community than to any particular paper. But he confessed that it appeared to him that the Committee was now called on by the Chancellor of the Exchequer to do what was never done before—to limit the blessings of printing, and stifle the electric telegraph as far as possible. Of this he was satisfied, however, that the clause was wholly impracticable. He agreed in the argument used by the right hon. Gentleman, and which had been used elsewhere, that a newspaper, though it did not invent news—yet sometimes, he should say, otherwise—though it did not invent the facts which occurred at Vienna, if any facts did occur there—still, it carried the intelligence with great speed and industry, and with his consent it should be paid, if that were possible, for its extraordinary diligence and speed in carrying facts. But, what was the meaning of a copyright in news he could not imagine. News must exist, and half-a-dozen men might carry news from Vienna, but one might carry it more rapidly than another, and the proposition should be to pay the particular journal which, by zeal and activity, got the news the soonest into this metropolis. He admitted that original articles of great ability appeared in the principal newspapers, but it was a compliment to quote them, and a testimony to the talent and ability with
 1987 Examiner, Spectator, Press The Times The Morning Chronicle. l. l., 1988
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he wished to know whether the provisions of the existing Act, which required securities from newspapers, would be applicable to any new description of newspaper that might hereafter be published under the provisions of the present Bill?
 MR. WILSON  said, the question alluded to by his hon. Friend had, for the last two years, received great attention on the part of Government, and after the most careful consideration Government last year thought themselves justified, considering the great duties performed by some of the Judges, in raising their salaries to the highest point allowed by the Act of Parliament. In supplying these increased salaries, the whole of the funds placed at the disposal of Government had been exhausted. Applications had been received from other Judges for an increase, but he saw no reason for complying with their request, and even if there was one, there were no funds which might be made available.
 MR. WILSON  said, that if there had been one opinion expressed more strongly and decidedly than another by hon. Members on both sides of the House, it had been that loans should be created in the form of terminable annuities. Now, the principle of terminable annuities was analogous to that embodied in the clause before the House. It was quite clear that the setting apart of a certain sum of money annually for the repayment of the loan would have the same effect as if the loan had been created in terminable annuities. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford said that, in the event of there being no surplus, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer being obliged to apply 1,000,000 l. l. 1967 l. l.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. Milnes) had by his notice on the paper raised so many puzzling questions for the Government, that he was afraid his hon. Friend wanted to coax them to try some other scheme, and he (Mr. Bright) had risen to express an opinion that, as the Government had already so many puzzling questions before them, they had better not unnecessarily involve themselves in another. The Committee, he believed, agreed that all persons who carried on, or were connected with, newspaper making, should do so in a way which would be remunerative to themselves, but it did not follow that it should be made remunerative by a clause so embarrassing as the present. If they took the paper which of all others had done most to circulate intelligence, which had expended the largest sums to obtain it, and which of all others was, from the value of its information, most liable to piracy, the House would find that there was no necessity for a clause of this kind, for it had been for years the most profitable business speculation that any number of men could have followed. He alluded, of course, to  The Times. The Times d., d., 2006 The Times. The Times s. d., The Times, The Times The Times; The Times The New York Tribune. The New York Herald, The Courier, The Globe, 2007 The Globe, The Globe The Globe The Globe The Globe The Globe "Our own opinion is, that the reputation of journals for priority of intelligence, and originality and vigour of writing, will prove their best protection. There is no pirating such a reputation; and little fear from piracy for those journals which have not acquired it." The Times The Times. The Globe, The Times The Manchester Guardian, The Manchester Examiner, The Leeds Mercury, 2008 The Times; The Times
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he thought it would have been better to have raised 20,000,000 l. l.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he quite agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Enniskillen (Mr. Whiteside) in thinking that it was impracticable to establish a copyright in news. One argument advanced by the hon. and learned Member for Bath (Mr. Phinn) in favour of the present clause had certainly astonished him—namely, that they might trust to the moderation of the proprietors of newspapers that they would not exercise the right they might acquire by this Bill in a rigorous spirit. He knew it was the fashion to praise the press, but he very much doubted whether, in the exercise of power, the proprietors of newspapers displayed a spirit which showed them to be exceptional to their species. But, in addition to the objection to the clause on principle, the Committee must see that it was totally objectionable in respect to its practical operation. It not only provided against the pirating of a whole article, but also against "any colourable abridgment or alteration of the same." Now, it would require the most critical mind to describe what a colourable abridgment of a newspaper article was. What was a newspaper? An ephemeris —an insect of the day—which, having performed all its functions, in a few hours disappeared. It could not for a moment be put on the footing of great works—such as those of poets, orators, and historians. To place on the same level with the writings of the right hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Macaulay) the correspondence of a newspaper from Vienna and Berlin would be most preposterous. He protested against investing editors and proprietors with such extensive powers on the ground of trusting to their moderation and forbearance.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he did not think that the  Essay on Man, Thomas à Kempis, De Imitatione Christi.
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  said, he could not allow the insinuations contained in the
 2003 The Times, The Times The Times, The Post, The Herald, 2004 The Times 2005
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  said, that if the doctrines of the hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat were to be generally received in financial matters the sum of 1,000,000 l. l. l.
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  said, he certainly understood the right hon. Gentleman not
 1966
 MR. HENLEY  said, that everything he had heard stated in favour of the clause made him view it with increased dislike. No man was more anxious than he was for a surplus revenue, but he believed that the clause, instead of furthering that object, would lay the foundation for breaking it down. In the beginning of a war, of which no one could foresee the end, the Government were laying down as a principle that one-sixteenth of the money they borrowed was to be paid off year by year out of the Consolidated Fund. He believed that the effects of the clause, though described as forming no part of the contract, would give ground for the charge of a breach of faith on the part of those who lent the money, if the stipulation which it contained should not be adhered to. Another inconvenience of the clause would be to make certain stocks more valuable than others. No man would be bold enough to say that circumstances might not arise, and probably would arise, when a future Parliament would not feel itself bound to carry out the provisions of the clause. The public creditor, therefore, would be in a position to say that in passing it in the first instance dust had been thrown into his eyes. In matters of this kind there was no security unless there was a clear bargain upon both sides. If the House divided on this clause he should vote with his hon. and learned Friend (Sir F. Kelly) against it, as it gave no security, and as it introduced an objectionable principle.
 MR. BASS  said, he wished to inquire what part Turkey had taken in the conferences?
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he would now beg to bring forward the clause of winch he had given notice. He felt himself in a peculiarly difficult position in moving this clause, because his right hon. Friend the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) had, in dealing with another subject, anticipated almost everything he had intended to say with regard to it, and compelled him in a great measure to rely upon his arguments. The immediate object of the clause which he held in his hand was to take as the measure which might be transmitted through the post for 1 d. 2015 d., argumentum ad absurdum d.; d. 2016 The Times; The Times Spectator, Spectator, Spectator 2017 Spectator "Every periodical publication that shall be printed and published at intervals not exceeding seven days between the two consecutive parts or numbers of such publication, and the superfices of which shall not exceed three thousand five hundred inches of printed matter, shall be entitled to the said privilege of transmission and re-transmission by the Post, if duly stamped with the appropriate die of one penny: Provided always, That such publication shall be subject to the terms and conditions imposed in the third Clause of this Act."
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES in reply, said, he should take the sense of the Committee upon his proposition. He would only remind them that the strongest and most vigorous speaker who had opposed it in this debate had been that hon. Member who had raised himself to a pinnacle of
 2035
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he hoped that before the Chancellor of the Exchequer withdrew the clause, he would give the Committee an assurance that he would devote his best consideration to devising some mode of reconciling different opinions on this point. There were few persons who did not feel in their hearts that some alteration of the present law was needed.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he wished to know whether it was intended to give the right of transmission and retransmission through the post as frequently as one chose within the fifteen days?
 MR. HILDYARD  said, he wished to move, in page 2, line 6, after "respectively," to insert—
 "If such annual value or amount shall reach or exceed 150 l., d. s. l. l." l. l. d. l. d. d. d. l. l., d. d.,
 MR. LOWE  said, he was desirous of putting a question to his hon. Friend the Secretary to the Treasury, but before doing so he wished to state a fact in order to render the question intelligible. By Act of Parliament the salaries of County Court Judges must be, at least, 1,200 l. l. l. l., l.
 MR. LOWE  said, he was sure that the Committee would believe him when he stated that he ventured to address them upon this subject with great reluctance, and that he should not be induced to do so did he not believe that he could give them some little information with regard to it. He apprehended the principle on which they were to decide this question was not that laid down by the noble Lord who had last addressed them. The noble Lord had argued the question as if they were about to establish a totally new principle for the conveyance of printed and written matter through the Post Office. It might or might not be right for the House of Commons to do so, but he would not enter into that subject, because it was not the question before them. The question simply was whether 1 d. l. d. 2023 d., ad infinitum. 2024 The Times The Times The Times l.; The Times, l. The Times, The Times The Times The Times 2025 The Times The Globe The Times 2026 The Times, The Times 2027
 MR. T. BARING  said, he rose to express quite a contrary opinion from that of the right hon. Gentleman who had last addressed them. When a clause was brought forward which bore upon it the stamp of honesty, and which was proposed by the Government in the performance of their duty to the country, he trusted they would be bold enough to stand by it in the face of all opposition. The House had been told that the question had been admirably argued by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone). He should say, pitting argument against arugment, that the argument of the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire was an answer to that of the right hon. Member for the University. Now, when it was considered that these 16,000,000 l. l. 1964 l. l. l. 1965
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he understood news had been received from Vienna that negotiations had been opened between Russia and some of the gentlemen or Ambassadors who had been left behind by the Plenipotentiaries. He wished to ask whether any negotiations of any sort or kind had been resumed at Vienna since the departure of the noble Lord opposite?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I had some difficulty, Sir, in understanding precisely what the proposition was, until I heard the hon. Member who has just sat down. It is simply this: that there is a case for relief to  The Times The Times, d. d. d. The Times. d. 2028 d., The Times The Times d. The Times The Times The Times. The Times d. d. d. l. d. The Times The Times, l. The Times. The Times 2029 The Times The Times The Illustrated London News, The Illustrated London News d. The Times The Times d.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he did not think that the hon. and learned Member for Bath (Mr. Phinn) had advanced any great argument in favour of the clause now before the Committee. He remembered the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) once made an observation to the hon. and learned
 1993 The Daily News. The Times The Times 1994 The Times The Morning Chronicle, The Daily News, d. The Times. The Daily News, "9 a.m., April 30.  The Post The Post "The Times 1995 The Times
 MR. PHINN  said, the first question to be decided was, whether it was desirable that there should be a copyright in news, when newspapers had gone to great ex-
 1989 The Times, The Morning Chronicle, The Morning Herald, 1990 1991
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, that the great evil to be apprehended from the omission of some such clause as this from the Bill was, that the establishment of a cheap press, living piratically upon the existing newspapers, would lower the character of
 2001 2002
 MR. MONSELL  said, it was the intention of the Board of Ordnance to erect a paper manufactory at Woolwich. Hon. Gentlemen were aware that it had been always the custom to make up cartridges at Woolwich of paper which was cut in the Royal Laboratory, and twisted there by boys. It had been thought, on account of certain inequalities in the size of the paper, that the accuracy of aim with the Minie rifle had been disturbed, and at the same time the Board of Ordnance heard of the invention of Mr. Pixie, of Aberdeen, relat-
 1950
 MR. GROGAN  said, he would beg to ask, if it was the intention of the Government to communicate to the House any news which might be received upon a subject in which the public were so deeply interested?
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  said, he begged to ask the hon. Gentleman the Clerk to the Ordnance, whether it is contemplated by the Board of Ordnance to erect a paper manufactory at Woolwich, and for what purpose such an expenditure of the public money is proposed?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, before my noble Friend replies to the question, I wish to correct an answer I gave to the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) the other evening in reply to his question whether the Russian Plenipotentiaries had made any counter proposals to the Conference after the rejection of the proposals made by the English and French Plenipotentiaries. I then answered from a telegraphic message, and such messages, the
 1952
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Since my noble Friend left Vienna, some proposals have been made by Russia which were not deemed likely by any of the representatives of the other Powers to lead to satisfactory results.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I cannot at present say what papers beyond the protocols will be laid upon the table, but the Government will consider the subject.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Whatever papers can be produced will be laid before the House as soon as possible, and I do not think their production will be delayed so long as the right hon. Gentleman supposes.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I think, Sir, the protocols themselves will pretty clearly explain what the four points were, but if the protocols do not afford sufficient information there can be no objection to laying some paper on the table that will give the requisite explanation. With regard to papers belonging to the long course of negotiation that preceded the conferences, I think there might be great objection to their production; but I will take care that the House shall be in full possession of a knowledge of the four points that were brought under the consideration of the conferences.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, from the desire expressed on both sides of the House, I had hoped that this Bill would pass without a division; but at the same time I think the principle involved in the clause now under discussion so important that I for one have determined to take the sense of the House upon it. I think the principle of the Bill to be simply this—whether Parliament and the country, when obliged by circumstances to add to the public debt, shall or shall not make any effort whatever to reduce in future years the debt which is so incurred. Now, it is obvious that no country can face any great emergency arising from a war, for which great efforts are to be made, without providing means over and above the ordinary revenues of the country, over and above those additional means which may be provided by increased taxation. No war of any magnitude can be undertaken by any country whatever without loans raised upon honest principles, or if without loans, those forced contributions, contributions of war, by which in some cases armies may be supported during the brief progress of a campaign. Now, according to the argument of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, the country ought never to make any endeavours whatever to reduce its debt, because the efforts made, and the taxation raised for that purpose, would deduct more
 1972 1973 l. bonâ fide
 SIR, CHARLES WOOD : I am sorry to find, Sir, that I was unfortunate in not making myself understood in what I said on a former evening. I distinctly stated, both yesterday and on a former occasion, and in nearly verbatim terms, the contents
 2047
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he was quite
 2048
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he must admit that the present state of the law was unsatisfactory, and he was willing to take into consideration the propriety of amending it, but he could not positively pledge himself to the introduction of any measure on the subject.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he had to appeal to the hon. Member for North Warwickshire to allow the third reading of the Loan Bill to take precedence of his Motion with respect to Maynooth, on the ground that, as Government were not able to touch the deposit until the Bill had received the Royal Assent, it was desirable to pass the measure as soon as possible, and that a day would be gained by reading it a third time in that House at a sufficiently early hour to allow of its going up to the House of Lords the same evening.
 MR. A. SMITH  said, he thought the number of petitions presented in favour of inquiry into Maynooth showed the strength of public feeling, and justified the Motion of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Spooner). The Roman Catholics were no doubt a large class of our fellow-countrymen, and every one would feel desirous of conceding a little to them, but why, he would ask, should Maynooth receive 26,000 l. l. 2086
 MR. DUNLOP  rose to second the Motion. He did so, he said, without the slightest hesitation, but not without some regret as to the position of antagonism to his Irish friends in which his sense of duty placed him. He could say for himself, and those who thought with him, that they found themselves opposed to these friends with regret; but they were actuated by no desire to deny them their just rights and legitimate influence. If they looked back to the time when the struggle for emancipation commenced, it would be found that, while in no part of the United Kingdom was the Roman Catholic religion more strongly opposed than in Scotland, no where was a more hearty and generous support given to the just claims of the Roman Catholics; and he believed that in Scotland still, if any attempt were made to deprive them of their civil privileges, the people would stand forward, as before, and maintain their right to the most perfect equality in every respect with their Protestant fellow-citizens. Speaking for those who agreed with him in these matters, he would say that they sought to deprive the Roman Catholics of nothing which they asked for themselves. They desired no endowment for their non-established communions. In Ireland they desired to maintain no body superior to another in reference to endowments; and last year they felt compelled, by a sense of justice, to vote against the continuance of the  Regium Donum 2070 2071 "Are there no circumstances under which the Pope could release a citizen from his oath of allegiance?" "Most emphatically I say, none. But as our greatest constitutional lawyers, and, as I think, our best theologians, hold that there are cases when the allegiance of the subject ceases, and when the Government of a country may be justly overthrown, I consider that the Pope is the fittest authority to decide in many cases whether such circumstances have arisen; in many cases he could not decide, and I firmly believe that in such cases he would not undertake to do so. In no case can he cause the allegiance of a subject to cease; his power in such a matter being simply declaratory, not enabling." 2072 "Were we to consult the Holy See upon our allegiance or obedience to our temporal Sovereign, and that an answer were given us, it ought to satisfy the consciences of Catholics, considering the maturity with which the Holy See proceeds, and considering also that we know it to be an authority divinely appointed and divinely assisted for our guidance in the way of salvation, and, consequently, in the path of duty. But as the Pope's infallibility does not extend to particular cases, and as the decision might rest on allegations the truth of which some might doubt, I can conceive that, in certain circumstances, some might not be entirely satisfied, even though retaining all due reverence for the Holy See." "At the same time, if a man were disposed to transfer his allegiance, or to give it up, that decision of the Pope would enable him to give it up with a safe conscience, would it not?" "Yes; for a Catholic should feel his conscience at rest when acting in accordance with a decision of the Pope." 2073
 MR. FREWEN  said, that it had been rumoured that one of the Members for the City of London had contracted with the Government for this loan, and that in consequence there would be a new election for the City. He thought it was desirable that the House should know whether that was the case or not.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it was the practice, on all occasions, that expressions offensive to the religious opinion of any great body of the Members of that House were not desirable, as they were calculated to hurt their feelings.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he would now beg to move the Address of which he had given notice for Returns of the expenses of the Secretary of State for the Colonies, with regard to his Lordship's mission to Vienna. He understood that the number of individuals attending upon the noble Lord upon his mission amounted to thirty-two—male and female. He certainly had never heard that it was the custom for ladies to be sent on foreign missions. He had no wish whatever to stint the noble Lord of anything which could conduce to his comfort, but the people, from whose pockets the money came, had a right to know what the cost of this mission was, the more especially as it had been a total failure. He hoped, therefore, that the whole expenses would be stated fairly and without concealment, whether they referred to luxuries, comforts, or recreation, or whether they were for purposes connected with the public service.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he was convinced from the noble Viscount's refusal to grant this return that the Government were afraid to lay an account of the expense of this mission before the House. He would leave the public to draw their own inferences, but for his part he looked upon it as an underhand, low piece of business, and he washed his hand of it altogether.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : The telegraph will be retained entirely under the control of the Government. I do not say it will be entirely confined to their use, but it will be entirely under their control.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he hoped he might be permitted to say, without any
 2092 2093 "Twenty-three sieges successfully conducted by them; six pitched battles decisively won; 2,803 cannon taken; 60,000 of the best troops of Europe compelled to surrender prisoners of war, either by capitulation or in the field; 144 towns and cities captured—among them many
 2094 Parl History, "The resentment of the public was particularly marked on the 25th of March, when Lord Fitzwilliam took his departure from Ireland. It was a day of general gloom; the shops were shut, no business of any kind was transacted, and the whole city put on mourning. His coach was drawn to the waterside by some of the most respectable citizens, and the people seemed intent on every demonstration of grief." 2095 "The great intention of the institution is to give the Roman Catholic clergy a home education, and prevent them being brought up under that system that was originally framed in foreign seminaries, for the purpose of supplying a succession of men who are so necessarily connected with the great body of the people to reside in the very heart of the country, prejudiced against its constitution, leagued against its Government, and intimately connected with its enemies, and to take care that no civil prejudices at least should be engrafted on their religious opinions. It is, therefore, evident that, to secure the objects of the institution, every means should be taken to prevent the Romish clergy of the kingdom from resorting to foreign seminaries for their professional education." 2096 2097 "As the Irish Parliament thought such a measure of policy advisable, he was still willing to retain the principle of meeting that determination; indeed, the united Legislature were bound by the principles of good faith to continue the grant." "He supported the grant as it stood, because it was one of those which the Parliament of Ireland thought wise to preserve at the Union, because he found it, in fact, given over to England as a part of the Union. If the grant had been fairly open to opposition after the Union, he certainly should have been disposed to resist it." "They had now to deal with a case in which the population were Roman Catholics, and would be Roman Catholics; and they had to consider whether they should be instructed Roman Catholics or ignorant Roman Catholics; whether they would have those Homan Catholics educated by priests well instructed and well affected to the Government which took them by the hand, or not. Let them look at it in either way, and he would say that, as Christians as well as politicians, they,
 2098 Hansard, 2099 2100 2101 "What is the doctrine taught in the Maynooth College on the subject of the authority of the Pope or the Church in matters of a civil or temporal nature?" "We teach in Maynooth, that the Pope has no temporal power whatever, direct or indirect. We have affirmed that doctrine upon our solemn oaths, and we firmly maintain it in the College of Maynooth. We hold the same doctrine in retard to the Church." "Would it be considered is a matter of course that any book put in the Index was not to be used in any Roman Catholic College?" "The Index is not received, and therefore imposes no obligation in this country. Dr. Murray, the late Archbishop of Dublin, Dr. Doyle, and, as well as I can can recollect, Dr. Curtis the Archbishop of Armagh, and Dr. Kelly, Archbishop of Tuam, declared, upon their oaths, in the House of Lords, in the year 1825, that neither the 'Bulla Cœnæ', nor the Index, was received in Ireland, and I am sure they have not been received since that period. The Index, therefore, induces no obligation upon us; but, as clergymen belonging to an ecclesiastical institution, we feel ourselves constrained to defer to the expressed wishes of the Pope." 2102 "Do you teach the doctrine at Maynooth to prevent the priest acting in such a manner as to make it dubious whether he is acting in his ecclesiastical function or in his temporal or civil function?—So far as I am concerned, I have never taught any doctrine in Maynooth on the subject
 2103 "Supposing the Pope were to issue a bull, declaring that circumstances had now arisen in this country which released the people from the duty of allegiance, would that justify a subject in rebelling?—My answer is, that a Catholic should deem the case impossible, for he could not suppose the Pope capable of such an absurdity." "But suppose it did occur?—If you suppose the decree given in the present circumstances of the country it would be of no force, as being manifestly founded in error; but I again protest against the supposition as disrespectful to the Holy See. "It would remain the duty of a subject to abide by his allegiance?—Certainly. "Suppose the Pope were to declare that, in consequence of the establishment of the Queen's Colleges, and in consequence of the passing of the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill, the time had arrived, and circumstances had arisen, under which the Irish Roman Catholics were at liberty to rebel, would that in any measure terminate the duty of or in any manner affect its obligation?—I must again answer by protesting against the supposition. Such are not the circumstances which to a Catholic mind would justify rebellion. If the case occurred, I would simply conclude that the Pope had gone mad." 2104 2105 2106 2107 2108
 MR. WARNER  said, he would then urge upon the Government the propriety of pressing Lord Raglan to send that more detailed information which was so much desired in the country.
 MR. WARNER  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty, or any one of the Cabinet Ministers, whether the despatch from Lord Raglan, dated the 29th of April, in which he inquires about the Sardinian Contingent, or any other recent despatch from Lord Raglan, has contained information on the state of the army or time progress of the siege; and, if so, what is the nature of that information?
 MR. FRENCH  said, he would take that opportunity of asking the First Lord of the Admiralty if the Government had decided whether the electric telegraph to the Crimea would be confined to the Government service, or whether it would be available to the public?
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I wish to ask the First Lord of the Treasury a question upon a matter of very great importance. I was not in the House last night when the noble Lord gave an answer to the question put by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Disraeli), but on reading what he said in the papers this morning it does not appear to me to have been either distinct or satisfactory. I do not put this question for the purpose of embarrassing the Government in any way. The noble Lord knows that for many weeks past I have been very silent on every matter connected with the war, believing that the noble Lord was desirous to make peace. We have now, however, entered on a new stage, and I am anxious, and so are thousands besides, for some precise information on this most important subject. The fact of the markets rising, corn having gone up from 5 s. s. 2049
 MR. BRIGHT : The noble Lord did not speak of the counter-propositions, or state any time.
 MR. MURROUGH : Sir, the sin which most easily besets my hon. Friend the Member for North Warwickshire is, that propensity for dwelling on those features of the case which afford the least satisfaction to the observer, which in Den's  Theology 2083 2084 2085
 MR. NAPIER , said, that as this question had been brought before the House, it was impossible for any hon. Member to avoid pronouncing a judgment and opinion on it. Though, as a member of the Established Church, he could not concur in the doctrines of the Roman Catholics, he was ready to argue this question as the right hon. Member the Secretary for Ireland had put it—simply as a political question. The right hon. Gentleman had said that the House was now called on to disendow what had been endowed under the peculiar circumstances of 1795. But the Motion of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire would not touch the Act passed at that period, which did not endow at all, but was simply permissive, enabling the parties to receive subscriptions and donations for the voluntary support of the college. Subsequently, annual votes were passed as donations, but this Motion merely called upon the House of Commons to take into consideration the present endowment out of the Consolidated Fund, which was created by the Act of 1845. With respect to the priesthood of Ireland who were educated at that college, what had been the description given of them by the noble Lord opposite last year, when the Motion was made with respect to the Six-Mile Bridge affair? He admitted that if any clergyman in England had done half what the two priests then had done, the country would have been convulsed from John O'Groat's to Land's End; and, in answer to an hon. Gentleman, who naturally inquired why they were not prosecuted, the noble Lord said that, perhaps, they were not worse than any other of the priests in Ireland. What had been the further description given by Lord Clarendon in his celebrated letter to Lord Shrewsbury? It had been said that the  Index Expurgatorius In Cœ;na Domini, 2109 In Cœna Domini, 2110 2111 l.
 MR. BLAND  said, that this certainly was not a propitious time to designate as idolatry the faith of those nations with whom we were in active alliance. He disapproved of the manner in which the evidence had been quoted and commented upon by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner), with less candour than might have been expected from a religious man speaking in that House. The Amendment of the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Scholefield) did not, however, go far enough in the principle of religious equality, for it only related to endowments granted by Parliament; if it had extended its operation to the Church of England he should have concurred in it, but as it was he should vote against both the Amendment as well as the original Motion. He considered that the hon. Member for North Warwickshire had dealt unfairly with the evidence, which he had
 2087 Whole Duty of Man, 2088
 MR. SPOONER  said, he was quite willing to accede to the wish of the Government, on the understanding that the third reading should pass  sub silentio.
 MR. SPOONER  submitted to the decision of Mr. Speaker. He had no wish to irritate any man's feelings; but he might be permitted to say that the word was to be found in the Formula of the Church, as applied to the celebration of the mass, and that the doctrine of masses was stigmatised as one of "blasphemous fables and dangerous deceits." "It is, I trust, conceived in the spirit to which I have referred, a liberal and confiding spirit. We have not introduced it without communication with the leading ecclesiastical authorities in the Roman Catholic Church. It has not been a subject of stipulation or contract with them. We have intimated to them our intention; and we have every reason to believe that they are satisfied with, and grateful for, the measure; that they will strongly recommend its acceptance; and that the great body of the intelligence and respectability of the Roman Catholic community will accept the measure as a liberal and efficient maintenance for the establishment at Maynooth." —[3  Hansard, 2053 "I do not mean to argue, as has been done by other hon. Gentlemen, the question of compact, or whether it would be wise or prudent after fifty years, during which this grant has been made, to stop suddenly, and to declare that you will advance no further sums from the public purse for the purpose of educating the priests of the Roman Catholic religion. But, at the same time, I will say that if you found you were doing that which was mischievous to the community, and that the religious scruples of the community would not allow of the continuance of this grant, or, with reference to civil and political reasons, you found that those you meant to be the teachers of religion had become the leaders and conductors of rebellion—if, I say, you found for any of these causes that there was ground sufficient to refuse this grant—then I can see no valid reason why any compact should restrain you, or why, upon strong grounds of this kind, the House would not be justified in declaring that it would give no further allowance."—[3  Hansard, 2054 2055 2056 2057 2058 "To a question respecting the turbulent conduct of certain students at Maynooth during political excitement, the original reply was this—That such conduct was scarcely to be wondered at when it was discovered that very many of those students were sent from dioceses such as that of Dr. M'Hale, and the students imagined that such ebullitions were tolerable because they were in unison with the avowed principles of their patrons." "This answer appeared its the shorthand writer's notes, but both the question and answer were erased, and marked 'irrelevant.'" "65.—There appears upon the minutes, proposals for the purchase of different volumes. At whose instance were those proposals made?—The proposals are sent in, either through one of the members of the board, or through me, and I lay them before the board. "66.—Do they come from the principal, or the council, or from whom?—From the person who wants to get a book purchased. "67.—the minutes there is this entry made—'Ordered, that fifty copies of the Rev. Dr. Donavan's work should be purchased for the College
(at 50 s. l. "68.—Who put you in motion?—The author—if it is to be recommended. I am not prepared to say that those books are bought for premiums; some of them are given as premiums, some are sold, and some are given out for the use of the College. "69.—Some years ago was there not a great
 2059 "70.—A breviary got up by Coyne, 'Coyne's  Diurnal,' l. Answer. "71.—'200 copies of Dr. Miley's book on the Papal States'—would that be at the solicitation of Dr. Miley himself, or at the instance of the principal?—The communication came from him, not through me, but through some of the bishops. "72.—'200 copies of  Cambrensis Eversus.' l. l. Cambrensis. "It should be taken into account that the trustees themselves have been for the most part either Dunboyne students or professors, and therefore they know of their knowledge what would be most useful for the College. There is no compliment for the author ever considered," (this seems a gratuitous remark,) "and there is no specific use mentioned when the books are purchased. It may be said— this will be a very good book for the boys' premiums,' 'this will be a very good book for the library,' or this will be a very good book for the students.' "73.—They are bought at the trade price, are they not?—Yes." "In the minutes furnished by you to the Commissioners there are orders for the purchase of a considerable number of copies of certain books, namely, 50 copies of Dr. Donovan's work; 200 of Dr. Miley's work on the Papal States; 200 copies of  Cambrensis Eversus, Diurnal, 2060 2061 Moral Theology), "He who owes anything to a heretic by means of purchase, promise, exchange, pledge, deposit, loan, or any other contract, is,  ipso jure, 2062 "This seal" (of confession) "is an obligation of Divine Law, most strict in every case, even where the safety of a whole kingdom should be imperilled, to conceal, even after the death of the penitent, all those things that have been spoken in confession" (that is, in order to sacramental absolution)," a disclosure of which would render the sacrament irksome or odious." 2063 2064 "These things being established, it is a certain and common opinion among all divines, that for a just cause it is lawful to use equivocation in the propounded modes, and to confirm it with an oath." "I have no official or positive knowledge why he was condemned; but, if it be necessary to give an opinion on the subject, I should say that he was condemned because he was a decided Gallican. (Appendix No. 1.) It is perfectly certain that the Gallican doctrines, at least to their full extent, are not acceptable to the Pope. Besides, Bailly has advanced a doctrine on the subject of marriage, which is also distasteful in Rome." "Bailly maintains the separability of the contract of marriage from the sacrament, contending that marriage among Christians may exist as a valid contract without being a sacrament. The present Pontiff, in his Allocution to the Cardinals, September, 1852, in reference, I think, to some disputes which were at the time disturbing some of the South American Churches (with the Archbishop of Lima), has formally laid down that no marriage among Christians can be valid unless it be a sacrament. Bailly and the French theologians generally maintain a different opinion; and this may be one of the reasons, if not the principal one, why Bailly was disapproved of by the Pope, and placed in the Index."— Report, 2065 "I repeat, if the Pope issue any commands on the subject of education, it is the duty of the subject to obey. If the Pope had not control of education he might as well give up ruling the Church altogether." 2066 2067 2068 Cries of 2069
 MR. SPOONER * said, that once more be ventured to bring under the attention of the House the important question to which the notice standing in his name had reference. That question he regarded as a most vital one; and he conscientiously believed that a right settlement of it was necessary for the safety of the Crown, for the integrity of the empire, and for the happiness of his fellow-subjects. 2050 2051
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he was always unwilling to trespass on the attention of the House, but he was especially so when he knew that the feelings of many hon. Members were strongly opposed to the view he took upon this subject. He begged to assure those hon. Members, that he desired to say nothing personal or offensive to them in the course of his observations. He would not follow his hon. Friend the Member for North Warwickshire through the evidence which he had so ably brought before the House, because, in his opinion, this was not a question as to what evidence had been given or withheld at Maynooth; the question was, whether the teaching of the Church of Rome, paid for by this country, was or was not beneficial to the people of Ireland, and it must be decided by a consideration of the moral results of that teaching. He wished, however, to call the attention of the Government to the specific charge made by his hon. Friend in bringing this Motion, that the evidence laid on the table was a fraud, and not the  bonâ fide 2089 History of England, "From the time when the barbarians overran the Western Empire to the time of the revival of letters, the influence of the Church of Rome had been generally favourable to science, to civilisation, and to good government. But during the last three centuries to stunt the growth of the human mind has been her chief object. Throughout Christendom, whatever advance has been made in knowledge, in freedom, in wealth, and in the arts of life has been made in spite of her, and has everywhere been in inverse proportion to her power. The loveliest and most fertile provinces of Europe have, under her rule, been sunk in poverty, in political servitude, and in intellectual torpor, while Protestant countries, once proverbial for sterility and barbarism, have been turned by skill and industry into gardens, and can boast of a long list of heroes and statesmen, philosophers and poets. Whoever, knowing what Italy and Scotland naturally are, and what, 400 years ago, they actually were, shall now compare the country round Rome with the country round Edinburgh, will be able to form some judgment as to the tendency of Papal domination. The descent of Spain, once the first among monarchies, to the lowest depths of degradation; the elevation of Holland, in spite of many natural disadvan-
 2090 "The scenery along the Elbe continues to be pretty, but the transition from Saxony to Bohemia, with regard to the aspect of the people, of their dwellings, and of their agriculture, rather resembles the change from English to Irish landscape; not that Saxony is so well dressed as England, or Bohemia so ill dressed as Ireland. How are we to distribute the causes of this difference? What to Government? What to creed? I think I may take credit to myself for wishing to look at all things with an unbigoted eye, but then it seems to me that as soon as you come to the crucifix on the high knolls and in the little grove, often most picturesque in effect, the appearance of comfort anti wellbeing among the people is on the wane." 2091 "That a sum not less than the sum which has been granted by the Parliament of Ireland, on the average of six years immediately preceding the 1st of January, in the year 1800, in premiums for the internal encouragement of manufactures, or for the maintaining of institutions for pious and charitable purposes, shall be applied, for the period of twenty years after the Union, to such local purposes in Ireland, in such manner as the Parliament of the United Kingdom shall direct." The Church in its Relations to the State,
 MR. FAGAN  rose to order. Mr. Speaker had, if he was not mistaken, laid it down as a rule that expressions of-
 2052
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he had given notice of an Amendment to the following effect—"That the House resolve itself into Committee to consider the existing state of Ecclesiastical endowments in Ireland." The objections of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr.
 2074 "Hoe Ithacus velit, et magno mcrcentur Atridæ." 2075 2076 2077
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  said, he could not help regarding the present Motion as a fresh product of that sleepless bigotry which found in his hon. Friend the Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) an ever ready and willing instrument—a bigotry which, he believed, would never be satisfied until it should have brought every faiths and persuasion within the narrow limits of its own wretched sectarianism. He thought he might take it for granted that the main charges against the College of Maynooth were that it taught religious error—that its doctrines were inconsistent with loyalty to the State—and that some of its teachings were essentially and grossly immoral. Into the question of religious truth or error the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the state of the College of Maynooth could not enter. It was not their province to say what was or what was not religious truth. But the Commissioners had reported on the question of loyalty inculcated at that College, and also on the question of the morality of the students. He would, before resuming his seat, read two extracts from the Report bearing upon those points. He should, however, first remark that his hon. Friend the Member fur North Warwickshire had not read a single passage from the Report; but had made all his quotations from the evidence given before the Commissioners. Now it should be observed that the Report was not founded on any special portion of the evidence, but on the evidence generally, while any particular part of the evidence could only convey the opinion of some one individual; and, under these circumstances, he did not think it altogether fair that his hon. Friend should have made no reference whatever to the Report. Upon the subject of the loyalty inculcated in that college, the Commissioners stated that—
 "All the students are required during the year following their entrance, to take the oath of allegiance;" 2078 "We should be doing injustice to the college if we failed to report, as the general result of the whole evidence before us, that we see no reason to believe that there has been any disloyalty in the teaching of the college, or any disposition to interfere with the obligations of an unreserved allegiance to Her Majesty." "We have heard no imputation from any quarter against the moral character of the young men, and we have no reason to believe that their general conduct is other than irreproachable." "We are here bound to say that we have no reason to believe from the evidence of any party that these studies have had a practically injurious effect on the mind and character of the students." Ten Facts from the Maynooth Report, 2079 "They should be doing injustice to the college if they failed to report as the general result of the whole evidence before them that they saw no reason to believe that there had been any disloyalty in the teaching of the college." par excellence 2080 2081 "If they want a parish priest," said the rev. gentleman, "we can let them have Mr. Bennett, of Frome; if an archdeacon, we can give them Archdeacon Denison; if nothing less than a D.D. will content them, we can throw in Dr. Pusey, and if they go so high as a bishop, we can let them have Samuel of Oxford and Henry of Exeter." 2082 Regium Donum,
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he could not agree to this Motion, the object
 2112
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The hon. Member will find all the information he requires in the papers. I may say, further, that my noble Friend the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs has informed me that the papers are being prepared as fast as possible; and I do hope that they will be laid on the table in the course of a few days.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : If the hon. Member had been in the House yesterday he would have heard the question he has now put satisfactorily answered. I then stated that it was the intention of the Government to lay on the table of the House, at the earliest opportunity, the whole of the protocols of the Conferences at Vienna; and I added that I thought it would be found that those protocols would contain all the information that the House could expect.
 MR. MILES  said, it was with great diffidence that he ventured to express an objection to the able and argumentative speech of his right hon. Friend the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley). He regretted that his right hon. Friend had thought it necessary to set himself so decidedly in opposition to the principle of
 2153 2154 "It is almost impossible to speak too strongly of the insufficiency of the majority of those schools. The school-rooms themselves are, for the most part, tolerably good, though possibly larger than is necessary for the daily scholars. But, generally speaking, the teachers, books, apparatus, and income of the school—the root of all the evil—is very insufficient." "An acquaintance by personal inspection with the smaller schools convinces me that some additional public assistance is required to raise in them the standard of education, if the teaching of the great mass of the population is ever to be effected." 2155
 MR. COWPER  said, that, his noble Friend the Secretary for the Colonies had remained in the House during a considerable part of the debate, and that, having come to the conclusion that it could not terminate before six o'clock, he had had less hesitation in absenting himself than would otherwise have been the case. To-morrow arrangements might be made for fixing a day for the renewal of the discussion.
 MR. BYNG  said, he should support the Bill in no spirit of opposition to the masterly argument of the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire, but because he entertained a sincere conviction that it would go far towards promoting the cause of education. It was based upon the principle of imposing local taxation for local educational purposes, and since it placed the management of the schools in the hands of the ratepayers and the local authorities, it also recognised the salutary principle of local self-government. He would candidly admit, that the progress of education owed much to voluntary efforts; but while he granted that any compulsory system in England would be at once dangerous and hostile to the feelings of the great body of the community, he yet could not concede that State interference in the matter of education was either impolitic or uncalled for. The State made laws for punishing crime, and surely it was not beyond its province to vote money for preventing it. The State was bound to govern the people, and it should also be bound to educate them as far as it could. Let him take that opportunity of saying one word as to the nature of the education provided by this Bill. With regard, then, to the secular portion of it, he did not think any exception could be taken to it,
 2159
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that as there were several Ministers unavoidably absent, who he knew were anxious to give their opinions upon the Bill, he should move that the debate be now adjourned.
 MR. HENLEY : * 2118 2119 2120 "In considering this subject, I shall divide it into four parts—first, the number of those who receive no education at all; secondly, the quality of the education received by those who attend schools; thirdly, our comparative state with regard to the rest of the world; and fourthly, the deplorable results of having neglected this question." 2121 "In 256 inspected schools, having 27,363 children in average attendance, the accommodation, at six square feet for each child, is available for 50,801. In Manchester and Salford it seems, from the evidence before the Parliamentary Committee of 1852, while only 33,663 children were upon the books of all the day schools, there was redundant accommodation for no less than 34,443; so that it may very fairly be concluded that if, in 1851, as many as 2,144,378 scholars were upon the books of day schools, the accommodation could not have been far from adequate for 3,000,000. It is possible, indeed, that the accommodation may not always have been just in the place where it was wanted." 2122 2123 "The condition of many of the free schools where no payment is demanded of the scholar seems to show that 'poverty' is not an adequate explanation of the children's absence, for in many free schools, though located in the midst of populous neighbourhoods, the attendance of scholars is less numerous and much less constant than in schools which require a fee. The fact that free schools, well conducted, may be found half empty, while a multitude of uninstructed children who might enter them remain outside, seems inconsistent with the theory that the poverty of the parents is the chief impediment to a sufficient school attendance." "And without some stimulus I almost fear that no measure, not even a rate providing good instruction for all, will have due effect; for, even when we have got good school-rooms and good teachers, and plenty of them, how are we to get the scholars?" 2124 "Mr. Mann adds these significant words—'In the case of 708 out of these 13,879, the returns were respectively signed by the master or mistress
 2125 "Of course, in looking at the 13,879 inferior schools, it must not be forgotten what a large proportion of the total number of scholars is composed of children under five years old, for whom a higher class of school would be of little avail." 2126 "I find that in 1846, when the population of England was 17,018,600, the number of persons committed thy trial was 25,107, and the number summarily convicted was 35,749, making altogether 60,856 persons convicted of crime. The population of Austria in the year 1838 was 23,652,000, and the detected crimes amounted to 29,492. The result is, therefore, that while the population of Austria was upwards of 6,500,000 more than that of England, the detected crime in England was double that of Austria." 2127 Education of the Poor in England and Europe, 2128 2129 2130 2131 "I would wish to speak with great respect of the American schools as to their secular character; I would wish also to say that there is something exceedingly peculiar in those schools, as they profess to be what they are not; they pretend to be, as they were originally, schools for teaching religion, and yet the teaching of religion is almost altogether banished from them. It is distinctly so stated by the Hon. Horace Mann, in his tenth report on the schools of Massachusetts. He says, 'The policy of the State promotes not only secular, but religious instruction; yet in such a way as leaves to every individual the right of private judgment and the sacred freedom of conscience.' "In the origin of those schools in Massachusetts, which was 210 years ago, namely, in 1642, the instruction enjoined by law was distinctively religious instruction, and so it continued for a great number of years. That was the origin of the school system of New England in the Puritan times, by those called the Pilgrim Fathers; but, at present, while it is nominally religious, I apprehend that there is almost no religious instruction given in the day schools of the United States at all."— [Q. 1928.] 2132 "I do not find that these children are furnished solely by those parishes which are still lacking the means of affording elementary education. All alike, whether possessing very good or inferior schools, equally with those where none exist, send their quota of ignorance to the union workhouse. The most prolific warrens are the outlying portions of large country parishes, and, still more, the suburban quarters of towns."—[ Report on Workhouse Schools, 2133 "We know that education has been spreading day by day; the present generation is better instructed, more civilised, more softened in manners, more amenable to just control, than any preceding generation within the period of our known history." 2134 [Census Report.] Society's Reports, 2135 2136 2137 "That whatever might be the demands of the middle and higher classes of that country, the poor and working classes had their wants well
 2138 "While at the General Peace every Protestant State on the Continent set to work to find the means of future advantage, in the development of the moral force of its people, England alone appeared in this respect to have misunderstood the genius of Protestantism; that with the worthiest and most enlightened aristocracy, and the most influential and enterprising middle class, her lower orders were, as a mass, the least instructed, the least civilised, of any other lower class in Europe." 2139 2140 Census Report Criminal Returns, 2141 l. l. l. l. l. [Laughter.] s. l. 2142 "It is not my purpose to form any estimate of the amount of work to be accomplished in order to obtain efficient schools for the 3,015,405 children whom I have supposed to be in a position to attend. Sir John Kay-Shuttleworth computes that to provide an education of the character contemplated by the Minutes of 1846 for 1,836,562 scholars in public schools of religious bodies would require a total annual sum of 2,890,845 l. l." l. l.; 2143 2144 2145 2146 2147 "It would be difficult to conceive that any man of Parliamentary experience could gravely propose that local municipal boards should be invested with power to establish rate-supported schools in every parish, with whatever constitution, to the inevitable destruction of the schools of religious communions." 2148 2149 2150 "In the education, necessarily elementary, of those who have to earn their bread by the labour of their hands, there is some danger that the moral training may give place to the merely useful, that more attention may be paid to that kind of knowledge which is directly convertible into money than to that which fits the individual to do his duty as a man in the future struggle, and, as we hope, the victory of life." 2151
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he believed that if a general system of education could be devised, which was not based upon sectarian principles, it would tend very much to improve the condition of the people. He believed that the great majority of the moneyed classes in that part of the country with which he was connected (South Wales) belonged to the Church of England, and supported the Church schools; but the education given in those schools was not acceptable to the population generally. He could not vote in favour of this Bill, because in his district it would have the effect of converting all those parishes where religious parties were nearly balanced into arenas of political strife; while, on the other hand, it would leave large numbers of children, whether connected with the Church or with the Dissenters, without any education whatever. Indeed, this was to a great extent the case in South Wales at present, not from any indifference to the cause of education on the part of the population, but solely on account of their religious distinctions.
 MR. KEOGH  said, that, with a view of meeting the objections of several hon. Members, he proposed, when the Bill was committed, to introduce into it certain clauses giving power to appeal under its operation from the decision of the magistrates to that of the assistant barristers.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that, in the necessary absence of Her Majesty's Ministers at a Cabinet Council, he quite concurred in the opinion that it was advisable the debate should be adjourned. He was anxious, however—considering the deep interest which had been manifested with reference to the settlement of the great question of national education both by that House and the country—that the discussion in which they were engaged should not be adjourned to a more distant
 2160
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Mr. Speaker, when I applied for leave to introduce this Bill, of which I am now about to move
 2113 2114 2115 2116 2117
 MR. ROBERT PHILLIMORE  said, he rose to second the Amendment of his right hon. Friend who had just sat down. But that, after the admirable and elaborate speech which the House had just heard, he should content himself with a very few observations. He gave the right hon. Member for Droitwich the fullest credit for having been actuated by the purest and highest motives in bringing forward this measure. It appeared, however, to him that the measure before the House was fraught with all the evils so eloquently described by his right hon. Friend the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley), and he could not see how the doctrine of the Church and the teaching of her schools was to be separated, or how the religious education was to be kept apart from the secular. The experiment had been tried in America, and had failed signally, and he trusted that warning would be taken from the result of that experiment. Now in America there was no national Church, but this measure proposed to dethrone the Church of England from her office of teacher of this nation. He
 2152 On the Advancement of Learning "Ingenuas didicesse fidelitor artes Emollit mores nec sinit, esse feros." fideliter." fideliter.
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  said, that many magistrates of Ireland had urged to him to protest most strongly against the passing of the Bill now before the House, and he must express a hope that Her Majesty's Government, in introducing the proposed Amendments, would in no way interfere with the practical working of the measure of last year, which had done incalculable good in the way of diminishing drunkenness.
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  said, that the public had been given to understand that a most disgraceful circumstance had recently occurred between two officers of the Enniskillens at Canterbury. Many disgraceful tricks had been played, and at last one challenged the other to fight a duel. The two officers went out for the purpose of fighting a duel, when Sergeant Brodie interfered, and was immediately put in arrest by the adjutant of the regiment. He was confined under arrest for a week, and in the meantime an inquiry took place in private in Canterbury. The result of that inquiry was sent up to the Horse Guards, and it was understood that a reprimand was subsequently sent down to Sergeant Brodie, directing him to be released from the confinement to which he had been subjected during the week, assuring him that he had transgressed his duties in the course he had taken, and stating that a repetition of such an infraction of duty would militate against him in his future career. He (Mr. Stanley) now begged to
 30
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he begged to ask the hon. Under Secretary for War if it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to grant that part of the return moved for by the hon. Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Layard), which requires, in each case, since the commencement of the war, the reasons to be given for which such commission was granted without purchase?
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he thought it was perfectly well known that Her Majesty could command the services of officers of the Indian army in any part of the world, even before the memorandum referred to by the hon. Gentleman was issued. The object of that memorandum was simply to regulate the rank and precedence
 31
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished to know if, by the order just issued, officers of the Indian army were to have command over Her Majesty's troops in this country?
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, if Her Majesty chose she had a perfect right to employ officers of the Indian army in this country.
 MR. E. ELLICE  said, he wished to state briefly the object of the measure, which did not propose to interfere with the operation of the existing law. He proposed to confer no new rights nor to take away any old ones. His sole object was to enforce the better carrying out of the present law, and to secure to the poor of Scotland those benefits which the Scotch Poor Law Act professed to give them, but of which they were in fact deprived. Previously to 1840 the Poor Law in Scotland was in an exceedingly unsatisfactory and uncertain state. There was a prevalent idea that the poor had a right to relief, but practically they obtained no efficient relief. Between 1840 and 1844 proceedings were taken in the Scotch courts to ascertain the power of those courts to interfere and prevent such relief from being altogether illusory and inefficient. The courts interfered with great caution and forbearance, and they decided that they had not only a right to declare that a person was a
 35 36 "If, indeed, I look on the Bill with the single eye of a landed proprietor, I would allow it to pass without opposition, but it would be a Bill not for the benefit of the poor, but to protect the rich from contributing too much for the maintenance of the poor."—[See 3  Hansard 37 38 à fortiori 39 40 s. s. 41 s. 42 "That the evictions had been in direct opposition to his feelings and wishes, and that he had repeatedly written to the trustee on his estate representing to him the cruelty of the measure he had in view, and begging him to send orders not to proceed with it, or, if he insisted upon such a measure, to delay it till spring, when the people would be better able to provide for themselves. His wishes had not been attended to, and these cruel proceedings had been carried out to the utmost extent of harshness." 43 s. d. s. d. d. s. 44 s. d. 45 d. 46 47 48
 MR. DUNCAN  seconded the Motion.
 MR. E. ELLICE  said, that after the assurance which had been given by the Government with reference to the subject with which his Bill proposed to deal, he had no difficulty in at once consenting to withdraw it.
 THE MARQUESS OF BLANDFORD  said, he could not allow the occasion to pass without thanking the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex (Lord R. Grosvenor), and congratulating the House on having the Bill brought before them. It had been so long since a Committee sat on this subject—in the year 1832—that it was probable its Report had escaped the recollection of the House. That Committee had expressed a very strong opinion on this question, stating that it was convinced
 57
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the districts in which the land tax was collected were, like the land tax itself, of considerable antiquity. Each county was divided into hundreds, in which the several Commissioners presided for the collection of the tax. It was competent for the general Commissioners of the county to recommend the transfer of any parish from one division to the other, and if the Lords of the Treasury and the Board of Inland Revenue approved of such transfer, it could be effected. He was not aware that any extensive inconvenience existed at present. There was, however, a great objection to give such a power as the hon. Member proposed because the rateable amount of the land tax differed very much in every county. The tax, too, was sometimes not assessed equally over the whole county. He did not, therefore, feel justified in assenting to the second reading. At the same time, if it were shown distinctly that the present law in any material part was defective, he would undertake on the part of the Government to introduce a measure by which it would be improved. As to giving the power proposed to the Lords of the Treasury, it should be observed that they were necessarily deficient in local information; and their opinions would therefore be influenced by persons placed in a subordinate position. The Bill, in fact, proposed to increase the size of one district at the expense of another.
 Mr. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, he was bound to offer some remarks on the Bill of the hon. and learned member, especially as he (Mr. FitzGerald) was a member of a Commission to which the hon. and learned gentleman had not alluded. If he thought that this legislation was calculated to work the reforms the hon. and learned member had stated in his amusing and exaggerated speech, he would not have opposed these Bills; but as he did not believe that they would have these results, but would
 77 l. l.
 Mr. WHITE SIDE  said, he understood the hon and learned member to state in the House that he (Mr. Whiteside) had stated what he knew to be totally at variance with the facts. He begged to state that he had said nothing of the truth of which he was not satisfied.
 Mr. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, he did not believe that he had used language that was at all un parliamentary. He never meant to suggest to the House that the hon. and learned member had knowingly made misrepresentations to the House. All he meant to say was, that the hon. and learned member had made statements to the House, grounded upon information which had been given him, that information being totally mistaken and erroneous, and he now repeated that statement. The House would recollect that it became necessary, year after year, to renew the Encumbered Estates Court Act, and it became a matter of controversy whether the Court should or should not be kept up. This
 78 79 80 81 82
 MR. ELLIOT  said, that it was notorious that many of the inspectors in Scotland had interests directly opposed to those of the poor, and it was to be hoped that, in future arrangements that might be made with a view to amend the poor law system in that country especial care would be taken to remove from office persons who were so circumstanced that they could scarcely be expected to act with impartiality. He believed that it was but too true that there were gross abuses and most serious defects in the administration of the poor laws in Scotland, and that there was reason to apprehend that the poor did not receive anything like the allowance of food or relief which ought to be awarded to them. He had confidence in the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate's declaration that the subject should receive his consideration, and he had no doubt he would exert himself to provide a remedy for the evils which at present existed. He hoped, therefore, his hon. Friend would withdraw his Bill for the present; hut, if nothing were done in the matter, he would promise to give his support either to this or any other Bill which he might introduce on the subject.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, it would be very inconvenient, the House having gone at some length into the discussion of
 33
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he considered that the House would scarcely consent that any of the three Bills to which the right hon. Gentleman had referred, affecting a question of so much importance, should be read a second time  pro formâ
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, he hoped that the House would not, by referring the Bill to a Select Committee, violate one of its own recent enactments, and give it an intramural interment, which would certainly be the result of such a reference. Three Committees had previously sat upon the subject, and had produced three blue books, so that he thought the House of Commons were quite competent to deal with the measure themselves. In respect to the objection of the measure being only applicable to the metropolis, he would remind hon. Members that it was always the practice to confine such measures to the metropolis in the first instance, with a view of testing their efficiency, and afterwards, if necessary, to extend them to the country generally. The great reason for proposing this measure exclusively for the metropolis was, that the evil it proposed to remedy was greater there than in any other part of the kingdom. Indeed, it was remarkable that in many of the towns in England, such as Exeter and Halifax, there was no such thing as Sunday trading. If the Bill be read a second time he would give ample time before he proposed its going into Committee, for any classes who had solid objections to it to bring them before the House.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  then proposed that it should be committed to a Committee of the whole House.
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  said, he begged to ask the First Lord of the Treasury whether the commissariat supplies for the Sardinian Contingent were to be furnished gratis, or whether the expense would be deducted from the amount of the loan?
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he was satisfied that Sir John M'Neill was correct in stating that great difficulty existed from the peculiar circumstances of the country, but, with respect to the statement that the rate of relief given to the poor, varying from 1 s. s. d. 55
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, in the course of the debate many reflections had been cast upon the conduct of Sir John M'Neill and the inspectors towards the poor, and more especially in reference to the parish of Glenelg. Now, what were the facts more immediately concerning those parties to whom the hon. Member for St. Andrew's (Mr. E. Ellice) had referred? It appeared that a class of persons called
 53 l. l. 54 s. d.
 MR. FREWEN , in moving the second reading of the Bill, said, that his object was to afford facilities for the formation of more convenient divisions for the assessment and collection of the land and assessed taxes. At present these divisions were regulated by the boundaries of counties, and the consequence was, that persons living near the edge of two counties were often put to great inconvenience by being taken, when prosecuting appeals, to attend the sittings of the commissioners of the county in which they lived, although they were much nearer the place at which the meetings of land tax commissioners were held in the adjoining county. He thought the land tax divisions
 65
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : I do, Sir, not quite understand the question of my hon. and learned Friend, but I have stated already that the substance of every telegraphic despatch received since the telegraph wires were laid down has been communicated to the House.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he had not the least difficulty in answering the question of his hon. and learned Friend, and he hoped his answer would be more successful in making known the intentions of the Government than an answer which he had given more than a month ago to a similar question from the hon. Member for Wakefield (Mr. Sandars). He was asked upon the 27th of March if it was intended to establish a blockade of the White Sea, and he then stated that as soon as the seas in question were free for the ingress and egress of vessels it was intended to establish an efficient blockade, and to make it from the first effective. The vessels to be employed in blockading the ports of the White Sea were now ready, had received their orders, and would proceed to their destination as soon as it was practicable from the state of the ice to approach the ports they were ordered to blockade.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : I hope, Sir,
 28
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord whether it would not be possible to afford an opportunity for the discussion of these Bills before Whitsuntide? The matter was so urgent, and public attention was so anxiously directed to the subject, that he hoped the noble Lord would make some arrangement for the early discussion of the Bills, even at the expense of a morning sitting.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he objected to these Bills being referred to a Select Committee until the House had come to some I decision as to the principle on which they were founded. He knew that many hon. Gentlemen were anxious to express their opinions on this important subject, and if the Bills were referred to a Select Committee they would be prevented from doing so.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he hoped, if the Bill went to a Select Committee, that gentlemen would be put on it who were practically acquainted with the management of large concerns, and the mode of paying wages earlier on Saturdays and on Fridays, for their experience and philanthropic feelings towards the working classes would be found of great value. The real question was the regulation of the payment of wages, so as to enable working people to arrange their affairs in such a manner as to leave time for rest and recreation.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he believed that the hon. Member (Mr. E.Ellice) had considerably exaggerated the present condition of the districts in question; but it was not necessary for him (the Lord Advocate), with regard to the course which he recommended the House to take respecting this Bill, to comment in detail on the statements of the hon. Member. He could assure him that the ideas which he (Mr. E. Ellice) entertained with regard to the working of the poor law, and the facilities given to paupers to appeal against the decisions of the Poor Law Inspectors, were exaggerated in the extreme. He (the Lord Advocate) sat as Solicitor General for a time on the Board of Supervision, and he could bear testimony not only to the exceeding ability and unwearied industry of Sir John M'Neill, who presided over that Board, but to the many hours which he devoted to the consideration of appeals from paupers in all parts of Scotland. If the hon. Gentleman would only look at the minutes which were contained in the last Report of the Board of Supervision, he would see with what careful anxiety those appeals were considered, and he would also find that many cases were remitted even more than once to the Board below, because the Board of Supervision
 49 50 51
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, in calling the attention of the House to the measures which he had introduced connected with Chancery reform in Ireland, it would not he necessary for him to occupy much time in enforcing a principle long since asserted in England, and which it was his object, with such alterations as might be necessary in reference to the difference of practice, to apply to Ireland. He would, however, as shortly as possible, explain the nature of his propositions. He believed that, since the reign of Charles I., many attempts had been made to reform the Court of Chancery, but that laudable task was not successfully performed in this country until, by the aid of two distinguished laymen in that House, and several able lawyers, the Court of Chancery in England was radically reformed. Very great benefits were conferred on the suitors and the public in this country by the reforms thus effected. He had taken the liberty of inquiring of one of the Vice-Chancellors what had been the result of the reforms accomplished by that House within the last few years, and as the answer he received would have more weight than anything he could say, he would beg to read one sentence from a letter addressed to him by Vice-Chancellor Stuart. [The hon. and learned Gentleman here read an extract from the letter referred to, in which it was stated that the alterations in the procedure of the Court of Chancery under the Act of 1852, especially those relating to the change in the Masters's Office, to proceedings in Judges' chambers before a chief clerk, to the substitution of concise certificates in lieu of voluminous reports, to the abolition of the
 67 68 l. 69 l. l. l. l. l. 70 l. 71 l. l. 72 l. l. 73 74 l. l. l. l. l. 75 76 Geo.
 MR. WHITESIDE : Sir, I beg to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty whether, since the laying down of the telegraph, any despatch has been received by the Government from the Crimea by telegraph which has not been communicated to the public?
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he understood it to be the pleasure of the House that the debate should be adjourned, and he should therefore yield to that feeling. It was a perilous thing, as he had discovered, to meddle with the Court of Chancery. About six weeks ago he had had some communication with the Solicitor General for Ireland on the subject of these Bills, and that learned Gentleman having told him that on the day then appointed for the second reading he was compelled to be absent to attend on a Commission, he had consented to postpone them, and the reward of his courtesy was the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman, which was clever in its way, no doubt, but which lectured him in a manner to which he was not accustomed at his hands. As to the hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland, he had spoken in a style of eloquence which was peculiar to him. He was not aware that he had incurred that attack upon him by meddling with the character of the hon. and learned Gentleman; indeed, it was about the last thing he wished to meddle with, and his acquaintance with the hon. and learned Gentleman, whether at the bar or in that House, was so slight, that he did not know that he had any right to do so. As to what the hon. and learned Gentleman said about anonymous attacks made by him, he could only say that, as he did not in the least comprehend the observation, he was quite unable to reply to it. As to the appointment of a gentleman over seventy years of age, why, did not the hon. and learned Gentleman remember that a man over seventy years of age could be a Prime Minister? The gentleman to whom reference had been made was quite competent to perform the duties which he proposed to confide to him, but he could see what was the object of the Government as well as if he were in the councils of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney
 89
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he would recommend that, unless some positive arrangement was made as to what should be done with the three Education Bills now before the House, they ought to be treated equally. Supposing that the Bill of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir J. Pakington) passed a second reading, the noble Lord and his right hon. Friend (Mr. M. Gibson) might be in a difficulty with regard to their Bills. He thought many Members would consent to the second reading of the Bill of the right hon. Baronet if it was to be referred to a Committee, who would vote against it if that arrangement were not made.
 MR. JAMES MACGREGOR  said, that
 60
 MR. MASTERMAN  said, he was quite ready to support the proposition of the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex. As an old citizen of London he was fully aware of the great inconvenience and immorality attendant upon the existing practice of Sunday trading. He hoped that the measure would not be referred to a Select Committee—a course which would occasion a great loss of time and considerable discussion to no purpose.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, that no answer had been given to the objection of the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe), that this was merely a local Bill; and he was of opinion that nothing could be more injurious than legislating for particular places. He thought that the 9th clause, which gave large powers to the police for enforcing the law, would lead to great oppression if it passed as it stood.
 MR. ROEBUCK : I dare say, Sir, it will be in the recollection of the House that this day week I put a question to the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government, in reply to which the noble Lord told me that orders had been sent to Lord Raglan to make daily reports to the Government, by telegraph, of the state of affairs in the Crimea. The question I now wish to ask the Frst Lord of the Admiralty, in the absence of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston), is, whether any report of any kind has been received from the Crimea by means of the telegraph; if so, whether there was somebody able to read it; and if that be the case, whether any portion of it can be communicated to the public?
 MR. ROEBUCK : Then I would ask my right hon. Friend whether a further telegraphic despatch will be sent to Lord Raglan, requiring him to send some information to this country?
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought it was not desirable to come to any decision upon the Bills that evening, for if they did they might find, when the Report of the Commission was laid upon the table, that they had affirmed a principle objected to by the Commissioners, or,  vice versâ
 MR. MONTAGU CHAMBERS  said, that this had always been found to be a very difficult subject for legislation, but the reason why other measures had failed was because they had gone too far. His hon. Friend the member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe) was mistaken in supposing that this Bill was unfavourable to the working classes; and as to the necessity of making other changes before such a measure was passed, he thought such a Bill would rather force masters to pay wages earlier, as it would be urged on them to do so to enable their workmen to go to market on the Saturday, whereas now they did not mind detaining them late on the Saturday, because they could go to market from eight till one o'clock on Sunday. As to the lower class of tradesmen, they had presented many petitions in favour of the Bill; and he had laid some stress on one petition, which came from the New Cut, in Lambeth, because it had been said on a former occasion that the tradesmen in that locality could not do their business if such a Bill passed. He would support a measure which would enable all persons better to observe the Sabbath.
 MR. MALINS  said, he could not refrain from remarking that the hon. and learned Solicitor General for Ireland had commented in a tone of great bitterness upon a proposition which was the result of extreme labour on the part of his (Mr. Malins') hon. and learned Friend the Member for Enniskillen, and was dictated by no other motive than an earnest desire to improve the state of the Court of Chancery in Ireland. Instead of addressing the hon. and learned Member for Enniskillen in a tone of bitterness and sarcasm, he (Mr.  83 84 85 86
 Mr. SPOONER  said, it would be found that there were many places from which people would have to travel some ten or twelve miles before they could reach the place of meeting of the Commissioners, and that that was an evil which ought to be remedied. He apprehended under present circumstances that there would be a great increase of appeals, in that case it would be a hardship on a man, especially where he was overcharged only a trifle, but which
 66
 MR. COLLIER  said, he begged to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty whether instructions had been issued to blockade the ports of the White Sea, and, if so, when the blockade would be instituted?
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  said, that much of what had been stated by the hon. Member for St. Andrew's, with regard to the administration of the poor law in Scotland, demanded the serious attention of Government. He should, however, advise his hon. Friend, after the statement of the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate, to defer to his request, and leave the matter in the hands of Government. If a sufficient remedy were not brought forward by Government, it would then be open to the hon. Member to introduce a further measure on the subject. When he found the allowances to poor and infirm persons from 1 s. d. 52 d.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he wished to inquire whether he was to understand that the Bill was to go to a Select Committee? According to precedent, all Bills of this nature went to a Select Committee before they were brought before a Committee of the whole House; and if this Bill was to go to a Select Committee, it would he hardly worth while to discuss its provisions now. He would, therefore, ask, what did the Government intend to do with regard to sending it to a Select Committee? All the Bills on this subject—that brought in by his hon. Friend the Member for Ashton-under-Lyne (Mr. Hindley), one which came down from the Lords, and one brought in by the hon. Member for Lambeth in 1851—were all sent to a Select Committee, and all fell to the ground. That had been the case with all the Bills of this kind which had been introduced. He did not distrust the intentions of the noble Lord (Lord R. Grosvenor), but he had undertaken to deal with a delicate and difficult subject. He (Mr. Buncombe) had not had a deputation of barbers, like the noble Lord, but he had had deputations from the working classes, and he knew that they had no desire to desecrate the Sabbath—they had no desire to make purchases on Sunday morning, but their necessities required it. He thought that on inquiry it would be found that there must be a great many changes in our social arrangements before you could legislate on this subject. In the first place, there was the question of paying wages on Saturday evening. It was said that some employers paid wages at an early hour; but it should be recollected that a great deal of the work done in the metropolis was piece-work, and a working man who took home his work on a Saturday evening, though he might find his wages ready, yet had to wait to get his next week's work given to him, and it was often past twelve o'clock before he got not only his wages, but his work; and how was he at that late hour to lay in his meals for the following day? Again a great many contracts were made with workmen by builders who took them into the country on Monday morning and brought them back late on the Saturday evening. How could
 59
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he should move that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee in conformity with the practice usually pursued in reference to Bills of the same hybrid character. He understood the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department to agree to this course. [ Cries of 64
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he would suggest whether the three Bills on this subject which were before the House might not be read a second time  pro formâ
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, he hoped that if the Bill was referred to a Select Committee, that Committee should be composed
 62
 MR. KEOGH  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman who last spoke had accused his (Mr. Keogh's) hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General for Ireland of having indulged in bitterness, reproach, and sarcasm, which were directed against the hon. learned, and particularly  suave 87 88
 MR. KIRK  said, that the keeping of the Sabbath holy was morally binding on every man; and how could that principle be carried out when the Sunday was desecrated in so extraordinary a manner in the metropolis? Every Sunday, on his way to a place of worship, he passed through a locality near to that House called Strutton Ground, where there was more trading than on a week day, and he was sure that such a Bill was required to put an end to such trading, both in the metropolis and all over the kingdom. He would support the Bill in every stage, and any measure against all trading on Sunday, whether in goods, clothes, or spirituous liquors.
 MR. WILKINSON  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. WILKINSON  said, that although he should be glad to see the Sabbath kept as a day of religious observance, yet he doubted whether it was desirable that the enforcement of that observance should be made the object of legislative enactment. He would suggest that the Bill had better be referred to a Select Committee, when he would then be able to judge of its merits, and give his vote accordingly. Looking at the question in a religious point of view, he contended that the Bill was not consistent with the principle upon which it had been framed, inasmuch as it admitted of certain exceptions both of time and place, with respect to the legal prosecution of Sunday trading. It would be lawful, for instance, under the operation of the Bill, to sell certain articles after one o'clock upon the Sabbath, but not before, while cream and milk might be sold even before nine o'clock. Now, surely, if it were a desecration of the Sabbath to sell certain articles at one particular hour on Sunday, it was equally a desecration of it to sell them at any other hour of the same day. Several attempts had been made to carry into effect the system of legislation which the Bill before them had for its object, but the framers of former measures
 56
 MR. OTWAY  said, he had observed in the  Gazette
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL , in reply, said, he had been informed that it was not the case that Sergeant Brodie had been placed under arrest for preventing a duel, but that ho had been placed under arrest for behaving disrespectfully to one of the officers of his regiment. As, however, he was engaged at the time in trying to prevent a duel, that circumstance was considered a palliation of his offence, and he was released without any further notice being taken of his disrespectful conduct. So far as he (Mr. Peel) was informed, no charge had been made against Sergeant Brodie, and no reprimand had been sent down from the Horse Guards.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL , in reply, said, that, according to the only interpretation he could put upon the words of the Motion of the hon. Member for Aylesbury there would be no objection to grant the return asked for. He understood that the hon. Member desired to know the reasons why commissions were given without purchase, and the only answer that could be given was, that they were given without purchase, either because the original holder of a commission died, or on account of the augmentation of the various regiments, and the consequent creation of new commissions. The hon. Gentleman did not ask why commissions granted without purchase were given to particular officers, and indeed it would be impossible to enter into the reasons why one individual officer had been preferred to another in granting a commission without purchase.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had understood the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Wilkinson) to be willing that the Bill should go before a Select Committee, and that he would take the sense of the House upon it when he saw the shape in which it came out of the Committee. Under these circumstances, it seemed hardly necessary to protract the discussion. The hon. Member for Lambeth had appealed to the Government, but the Government were quite ready to support the second reading of the Bill. He was not sure that the measure would accomplish all that was expected from it, but he should be very glad if it had the effect of enabling them to enforce the present law, for it should be remembered that this was no new principle. The existing law, however, contained defects, particularly as regarded the difficulty in enforcing penalties, which made it practically inoperative. He regarded the present measure, not as one to force upon the inhabitants of the metropolis the religious observance of the Sabbath, but it was one which would consult the general convenience of the inhabitants, while at the same time it would correct a great and
 58
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was sorry that the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe) had misunderstood what he had said. He had never assented to referring the Bill to a Select Committee. He had merely suggested to the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Wilkinson) to postpone his objections until the Bill was in Committee. It was altogether a mistake to suppose that there was any rule of the House for referring such measures to a Select Committee. He thought that the House, when in Committee, was just as competent to amend the Bill as a Select Committee.
 MR. CAIRNS  said, he wished to suggest the propriety of adopting a medium course between the proposition of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Enniskillen (Mr. Whiteside), who moved the second reading of these Bills, and the proposition of his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General for Ireland, who moved that the House should reject them altogether. He thought sufficient reason had been assigned why the House, at all events, should not reject the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Enniskillen until the report of the Queen's Commission was laid upon the table. He regretted that in the course taken by his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General for Ireland, his hon. and learned Friend had not exhibited his usual consideration and judgment. The hon. and learned Gentleman had referred to Her Majesty's Commission, but that Commission was merely required to Report to Her Majesty, and it would be for Her Majesty to say whether the Report should be laid upon the table of the House. The course taken by his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General was most unfair to the Commissioners, and, indeed, his hon. and learned Friend seemed to have forgotten altogether what sort of thing a Report was. The hon. and learned Gentleman had stated to the House the contents of a draught Report not yet even approved by all the Commissioners, which was therefore subject to change, and which was confidential until it had been submitted to Her Majesty and ordered to be laid on the table of the House.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he would then beg to ask if the noble Lord could fix the first Government night after Whitsuntide for the adjourned debate?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he felt bound to state that, sensible as he was of the great importance and difficulty of the question, it had always been his intention
 34
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was desirous of putting a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government in reference to the present position of his (Sir J. Pakington's) Bill on the subject of education. He had been informed that the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies did not intend to proceed further with his Bill until the sense of the House had been taken upon that now partly discussed, and he (Sir J. Pakington) believed it was the intention of the right hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) to adopt the same course in reference to his Bill. He (Sir J. Pakington) was somewhat unwilling, after the great courtesy already shown him, to make any further appeal with regard to his Bill, but he thought the House would feel, after the extent to which public attention had been called to the subject, that it was desirable to resume the debate upon it as early as possible. He therefore hoped, upon public grounds, that the noble Lord would be good enough to fix an early day for resuming the adjourned debate.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said that the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe's) account of the result of sending Bills of this kind to a Select Committee was not very encouraging, and after the fate of these Bills he was unwilling to send this to a Committee upstairs—especially as the clauses of the Bill were very few, and such as he considered the House could make practicable. When his noble friend introduced the Bill he (Sir J. Shelley) said that he was favourable to the principle of the Bill, but he could not pledge himself to all the details of a Bill which he had not seen. There were some points in the Bill which he thought objectionable; still he thought it was not a Bill which was for the benefit of tradesmen only, but one for the promotion of the comfort of the working classes, and he was glad therefore that it had been introduced. There was a growing feeling that there should be greater opportunities for relaxation afforded to the working classes. He never believed that you could make people religious by Act of Parliament; but the rest of Sunday was the greatest he himself knew, and he wished to see it enjoyed by the working man. He hoped the noble Lord (Lord R. Grosvenor) would not send the Bill to a Select Committee. There was a prejudice out of doors against Bills of this kind, but all the former Bills on the subject were impracticable from their very nature. He thought, however, that this would be a practicable measure. He could only say that if any one doubted the state of trading in the metropolis on Sunday let him go to Clare Market, a part of his constituency, and he would find that it was carried on all day; and much to their credit he had that evening presented a petition in favour of the Bill signed by all the
 61
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he begged to ask what arrangements were intended to be made in connection with the department of science and art, and particularly with regard to the Museum of Practical Geology, in consequence of the death of Sir Henry de la Beche?
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he should support the measure, mainly on religious grounds, though he was quite prepared also to advocate it on the lower grounds of expediency and political economy. They had been told by Mr. Bianconi that horses which rested on Sundays did more work in six days than others did in seven, and he maintained that the repose of the Sabbath was necessary both for man and beast. The petitions in favour of the Bill were mainly signed by those who were suffering under the operation of the present state of things, which led to unfair competition between tradesmen, and to injurious treatment of workmen. He must deny that the shopkeepers would be injured by the Bill, as the goods which could not be purchased on Sunday would be purchased on another day in the week, and the shopkeepers would have the day to devote to religion or to recreation, and their receipts would not be diminished. Looking at the question in an economical point of view, he was prepared to contend that labourers would produce more in six days' labour, having the seventh for rest, than they would were they to work on all seven days, and their wages would be in proportion. He thought, therefore, that on religious grounds, on grounds of expediency as well as of political economy, it was necessary that some such measure as this should be passed, and though there certainly were some things with which they might in consistency be called on to deal, but which this measure did not touch, he thought on the whole the Bill was a good and would be a beneficial one.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the loss of Sir Henry de la Beche would, of course, be deeply felt by the institution, as well as by science and art generally. It was, however, the intention of Her Majesty's Government to fill up the vacancy
 32
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he could assure the right hon. Baronet that the Government were fully impressed with the great importance of the subject to which the question of the right hon. Gentleman referred, and also of the importance of resuming the adjourned debate as early as was consistent with the pressing and urgent business of the House. But, having communicated with his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he feared that matters of urgency, in point of time, connected with the supplies of the year, rendered it impossible to accommodate the right, hon. Baronet with any Government day before Whitsuntide.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, it was originally intended that the Sardinian Contingent should provide themselves with stores, and take charge of their own commissariat. With that view they had loaded two large vessels with provisions to last a considerable time, but one of the vessels had unfortunately been burnt very soon after it left the port, and the loss of the stores it had contained would, he apprehended, render the Sardinian troops dependent upon our commissariat stores for a portion of their supplies. But whatever they derived from our commissariat stores they would pay for, as they would for supplies which they might have procured by other means, and the cost would not be added to the amount of the loan.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he would give the right hon. Baronet the earliest possible day after Whitsuntide.
 MR. E. ELLICE (St. Andrews)  said, that in consequence of a wish that had been expressed by his right hon. Friend the Member for Inverness-shire (Mr. H. Baillie) he wished to say a few words in explanation of something that fell from him last night. A near relative of his hon. Friend had a considerable estate in the parish of Glenelg, which went by the name of that parish, although, in fact, it formed only a part of it. He was desirous of saying that the disgraceful state of the poor to which he had last night called the attention of the House existed in a totally different district to that of the property of the relative of the hon. Member for Inverness-shire, although it was situate in the same parish. So far from intending in any way to reflect upon the management of the property now in question, he was aware that a system of gradual emigration had been for some years conducted there with much liberality by the proprietor, and he believed the result of that emigration, which was entirely voluntary, was quite as satisfactory to the people as it was beneficial to the proprietor himself.
 COLONEL KNOX  said, he thought the hon. Under Secretary for War had not answered his hon. Friend's (Mr. H. Bail-lie) question, which was, what means were the Government about to take for the purpose of putting the militia force on a more efficient footing? Every day complaints were being made by the commanding officers of militia regiments that, whether they wrote to the War Office or to the Commander in Chief, they could get no answer to their letters of any kind. If the War Office could not carry on the business of the militia, the Government ought to organise a regular staff, with an adjutant general, and a quarter-master general,
 124 l. 125
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that one statement just made by the hon. Under Secretary for War corroborated the charge of apathy and inactivity preferred by the hon. Member (Mr. H. Baillie) against the Government. A special Session of Parliament was summoned early last December for the express purpose of passing the Foreign Enlistment Bill, and, five months having since elapsed, the House was now told that the Government hoped at some future time to be able to state that depôts were forming of the troops to be raised under that Act. No unforeseen difficulties that they had heard of had been encountered in the carrying out of that measure; and, therefore, if this announcement of the hon. Under Secretary was to be taken as a fair specimen of the energy and diligence of the Government in meeting the requirements of such a contest as that in which we were now engaged, there was but little hope of their seeing the war brought to either a speedy or a satisfactory termination. The House was entitled to ask from the Government an explanation of the apparently unaccountable delays that had occurred in the carrying out of an Act which they had themselves regarded as being of such vital importance.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he could confirm the testimony borne by the hon. Member who spoke last as to the conduct of the War Department towards the officers of the militia; for it was impossible for any one to experience greater courtesy or assistance than he had personally received as a colonel of militia from the authorities at the War Office.
 THE MARQUESS OF GRANBY  said, he was of opinion that, as the original agreement was to enlist the men for a period of fifty-six days, Government could not have acted otherwise than they had done without committing a breach of faith with the militia. He rose, however, to ask the hon. Gentleman, the Under Secretary of War, whether the statement was true, that no militiamen would be reattested after the 26th ultimo?
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he most cordially approved of the hon. Member's (Mr. J. O'Connell's) deprecation of the differences which were alleged to exist between the men of the south and west, and those of the north of Ireland. It would certainly be a great disgrace to them if such differences existed; but he had not seen any such differences. He was happy to say that he was acquainted with some Irish militia regiments in which were Protestants and Roman Catholics from various districts of Ireland, who lived together in the most perfect harmony, as if they came from the same town. He had not the slightest fear of such disputes as had been alluded to by an hon. Gentleman. The avoidance of such disputes depended upon the officers, and he was sure that they would not encourage them. The hon. Member for Kerry (Mr. H. Herbert) had spoken of two militia officers who had quarrelled at an inn, but he omitted to state at what hour of the night that quarrel took place. With regard to the question of the payment of the bounty, he concurred with the hon. Member for Clonmel in thinking that its payment in doles tended to diminish enlistment. He must also complain of the manner in which the embarkation of troops and stores was still conducted. The other day when a troop of artillery was embarked, it was found after the guns were on board, that the horses could not be taken in, and if the horses were taken, their harness could not be. These things occurred every day, and yet there could not be a more useful or efficient department than the Board of Ordnance, if properly worked. He did not impute to the Government a want of anxiety with respect to the management of the war, but accidents had occurred with respect to it which proper care and foresight must have prevented. He likewise considered that the whole system of recruiting for our army was bad. We were enlisting boys of sixteen and eighteen years of age, who were totally unfit for active service in the Crimea—and yet they were sent out to fight against the veterans of Russia. But when they reached the Crimea they were sent to the hospital and to their graves. The work in the trenches soon terminated their existence. He had spoken to officers who had returned from the Crimea, and they assured him that those young men and boys were a nuisance instead of a service to the army, and that it would be far better to send out a few
 137
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that he laboured under considerable diffidence in addressing the House on this subject, because he felt that he was not qualified to discuss it either on its social or economical grounds. The House had heard the strong appeal made by the last speaker, who had told them that the measure before them was so inconsistent with the principles of justice and equity that—to use the hon. Member's choice expression—any lawyer would be scouted who ventured to maintain the principles. Now, he (the Solicitor General) would venture to say,  pace tanti viri 146 147 "If a landlord enters into an arrangement with the tenant relative to improvements,"— "If a landlord enters into an arrangement with a tenant relative to improvements, and completely sanctions them, &c., I doubt whether that does not fasten an equity upon the landlord, precluding him, when these improvements are made under his authority, from saying there is an end of the lease. Such an arrangement, though without a specific agreement, would imply one, as it would be so contrary to good faith to encourage a tenant in so positive and direct a manner to proceed in particular improvements, and then deny him all benefit, that I think equity would interfere, and hold it an implied term, that the tenant should have the fair benefit from the improvements thus made with the concurrence of his landlord." "This Court will not permit a man, knowingly, though but passively, to encourage another to lay out money under an erroneous opinion of title, and the circumstance of looking on is in many cases as strong as using terms of encouragement,—a lessor knowing and permitting those acts, which the lessee would not have done, and the other must conceive he would not have done, but upon an expectation that the lessor would not throw an objection in the way of his enjoyment." "Taking the repairs to be substantial and proved, the case fails in a material point, that, in order to give a person a larger interest in the property than he derives under the instrument making his title, it must be shown that with the knowledge of the person under whom he claims he conceived he had that larger interest, and was putting himself to a considerable expense, unreasonable compared with the smaller interest, and which the other party observed, and must have supposed to have been incurred under the idea that he intended to give that larger interest, or to refrain from disturbing the other in the enjoyment." 148 sub judice; 149
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that as far as he understood the measure, it neither emanated from those by whom it professed to have been recommended, nor was it intended for the benefit of those to whom it purported to afford relief. He considered that this Bill, and all other measures of a similar kind, were got up by a certain section, for the purpose of political agitation. He believed the sole effect of the retrospective clause, if it was carried out, would be to transfer a certain amount of property from the pockets of the Irish landlords to those of the Irish tenants; and the clause to which the hon. and learned Member for Leominster (Mr. J. G. Phillimore) had referred, seemed to him designed for the sole purpose of robbing both landlords and tenants, and transferring the amounts of which they were to be plundered to the pockets of country attorneys.
 SIR JOHN FITZGERALD  said, he considered that the Bill related wholly to Ireland. In that country, when a tenant took land, he was obliged to erect farm buildings upon it at his own expense. When his lease expired there of course arose the question which was now before the House, whether or not he was to receive compensation from the landlord for those buildings which he had erected, and which he must leave on the premises. At the expiration of the lease the land was become more valuable, and no renewal of the lease would be given except at a higher rent. No law at present in existence compelled the landlord to give to the tenant the compensation to which he was entitled; and this had caused, and was causing, the most alarming emigration of the Irish agricultural population. He gave his most hearty support to the measure.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he considered the present Bill as far less objectionable than that brought in by the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Napier); but he had opposed that measure at the time, and was therefore perfectly consistent in opposing the one now before the House. He had been perfectly astonished to find the right hon. and learned Gentleman bringing in a retrospective clause, after he had assured him that he never would do so. He (Colonel Dunne) thought that Lord Derby's Government, of which he had been a Member, had acted upon this question with insincerity to those who supported them, and the right hon. Member the Secretary for Ireland (Mr. Horsman) had
 173
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the hon. and learned Member for Wallingford (Mr. Malins) ought to know, though, perhaps, the hon. and learned Member for Enniskillen (Mr. Whiteside) did not know, the difference between the case he (the Solicitor General) had put to the House, and the case which the hon. and learned Member for Wallingford represented him to have put. The case the hon. and learned Member for Wallingford represented him to have put was the case of an express contract between landlord and tenant; but
 175
 MR. MOFFATT  said, he considered that the change proposed by the Government would be injurious to the sugar producers and consumers, and to all classes connected with the sugar trade.
 MR. MOFFATT  said, as the Committee had decided by a majority of more than two to one that 4 s. d. s.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he sincerely regretted that the Government should have permitted one of its members—the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General for England—to embarrass the whole question by propounding a doctrine which he would not able to repeat in any Court in Westminster Hall without subjecting himself to a castigation that he would never forget. The House was considering a Bill the object of which was to settle a great social question, by giving strength to covenants between different free agents, and the doctrine laid down by the Solicitor General went to the destruction
 166 167
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I wish to have some explanation from Her Majesty's Government of the unusual delay which has taken place in laying before the House the
 106 107
 MR. DISRAELI : Yes, I will conclude with a Motion, if you should find that I am not strictly within the limits of a question; but I apprehend that you will probably be of opinion that I am strictly within those limits. I wish first to state what, under similar circumstances, was the course pursued by the Ministry on the occasion to which I am referring, and then to inquire why that course has not been adopted on the present occasion. But if you, Sir, should be of opinion that I am trespassing on the rules of the House, I will conclude with a Motion which will not be inconvenient to the Government, inasmuch as it is one which they would have to make themselves at some period during the evening. I may remind the House, that on the 20th December it was known that negotiations had terminated. On the 29th December the Plenipotentiary (Lord Malmesbury) returned to this country; but three days before his return—namely, on the 26th—Mr. Secretary Dundas came down with a Message from the Crown, expressed in these words—
 "It is with the utmost concern that His Majesty acquaints the House of Commons that his earnest endeavours to effect the restoration of peace have been unhappily frustrated; and that the negotiation in which he has been engaged has been abruptly broken off by the peremptory refusal of the French Government to treat, except upon a basis evidently inadmissible. His Majesty has directed the several memorials and papers which have been exchanged in the course of the late discussion, and the account transmitted to His Majesty of its final result, to be laid before the House."—[ Hansard, Parl. History
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I am sorry that any misconception on the part of the hon. Member of a statement which it is for the public interest that I should make, and which nothing but the state of the public service, and a regard for the honour and advantage of the country, should have induced me to make, should have subjected me to this interruption. Still, however, I do not despair of bringing the matter clearly before the House, and I will attempt to regather the broken strings of this narrative. The House will see that the moment it was shown that the negotiations were broken off—even before the Plenipotentiary had returned, there came a Message from the Crown to the House of Commons, and the Minister at the same time stated that all the papers relating to those transactions should be laid before the House, and he gave notice that upon the following day the documents in question should be placed upon the table—a very different position from that in which the House now finds itself placed. But was that all? On Monday, the 26th of December, the Message of the Crown to the House of Commons came down. On Wednesday, the 28th, in reference to the promise contained in that Gracious Message, the Minister placed upon the table of the House the whole of the papers connected with those negotiations. But that was not all. Mr. Canning, then Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, on the preceding day laid on the table of the House, for the use of the Members, a State Paper of the utmost importance, composed with an ability which was not remarkable, since the pen of Mr. Canning may be traced in it, called "His Majesty's Royal Declaration," in which the King informed the House of all the circumstances of the negotiations, and of the cause which had led to their unsuccessful termination. The House will perceive that, in 1796, under circumstances similar to the present—so similar, indeed, that
 109 110
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he wished to take the opportunity of bringing under the attention of the Government a subject which he thought of considerable importance in connection with the prosecution of the war. There were in the Government prisons of England some 10,000 convicts under sentence of transportation for long periods, and an addition was made to this number at the rate of about 4,000 a year. There were also nearly 2,000 convicts turned out upon the country every year with what were rather significantly called "orders of licence," and, however willing these men might be to work, they were almost invariably unable to obtain employment. He thought the present war afforded an opportunity of solving the difficulty which had occurred with reference to the disposal of men of this class. These convicts had, while in prison, become accustomed to an almost military discipline, many of them were capable of great physical labour, and they were by no means the worst criminals in the country, but were, perhaps, the least degraded of any class of criminals. They were, by all accounts, not habitual thieves, but men of ungoverned temper driven by violent impulse into various outrages. He need scarcely remind the House, on the other hand, that our gallant soldiers in the Crimea were compelled to undertake most severe labour of all kinds, which he considered they ought not to be called upon to perform. The choicest troops of England were forced to perform fatigue duties, such as never ought to be thrown upon them, and even the Guards had been required to clean out cesspools. When ablebodied men were turned out of our prisons, at the rate of 150 a month, with, so called "orders of licence" but without the means of employment, and when our soldiers were overtasked with labour unfit for the troops, but which these convicts were well able to perform, he wished to ask why the convicts who were considered eligible for orders of licence might not have the option of enlisting for a limited time, in commutation of the remainder of their sentences, for the particular description of service to which he had
 133 134
 MR. COWAN  said, that billeting fell very lightly on Edinburgh, a city of 120,000 souls; but on the smaller towns—Dalkeith, for instance, with only 5,000 inhabitants—the injury it inflicted was intense. A medical gentleman of that town had four militiamen billeted on him within three weeks, who turned out to be the most worthless, drunken characters imaginable; in fact, a perfect disgrace to his house. He (Mr. Cowan) had sent a communication, which he had received from the billet-master of Edinburgh, on the subject of billeting, to Lord Panmure; and he hoped, as that document was acknowledged to be valuable, that the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for War would direct his attention to it. The present system of militia accommodation in the small towns of Scotland was quite disgusting.
 MR. SPEAKER : The right hon. Gentleman has intimated his intention of concluding with a Motion, and is, therefore, perfectly in order.
 MR. SPEAKER : Does the right hon. Gentleman mean to conclude with a Motion?
 MR. SPEAKER : Before any other hon. Member rises to speak, I think it right to state that Orders of the Day have precedence of Motions on Friday, and that for the last three hours the House has been discussing questions founded on a Motion which must be withdrawn, inasmuch as the House must meet to-morrow, as there is then to be a Royal Assent by Commission.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman had no right to reply, no Amendments having been made to the second reading.
 MR. SPEAKER  reminded the hon. Gentleman that he had already moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he must beg the indulgence of the House while he briefly explained the views and intentions of the Government with respect to this measure. He was somewhat surprised to find how forgetful the Gentlemen who had spoken on the other side seemed to be as to what had taken place in previous Sessions with respect to this Bill. To listen to the expressions of indignation at the monstrous proposition which it would appear from them was now, for the first time, submitted to an astonished House, one would think that the question of retrospective
 155 156 157 158 159 160 161 162
 MR. FRENCH  said, he rose to put a question to the First Lord of the Treasury, of which he had given notice some days ago. It was to ask what steps had been taken and what decision, if any, had been come to in relation to the proposal made by the Earl of Dundonald for the destruction of the Russian fortresses. He might remind the House that, after an expenditure of some 30,000,000 l. 114 115
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the state and condition of the militia force in the United Kingdom, and to put a question to the Government on the subject. The House was aware that in consequence of a doubt existing as to whether a certain portion of the militia force was liable to be called on service for a longer period than fifty-six days in the year, the Government deemed it advisable to give permission to all who wished to return to their homes to do so. Unfortunately, a large portion of the force took advantage of that
 117 118 119 120
 MR. H. B. BARING  said, he begged to ask the hon. Under Secretary for War whether it was the fact that Colonel Crombie, late of the Coldstream Guards, was placed on the half-pay list in consequence of ill health, and at his own express desire? He asked that question in consequence of a statement made by the hon. Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Layard) the other evening, that Colonel Crombie was compelled to resign his commission to make way for Lord Burghersh, and a son of Viscount Hardinge, and that he did not know he was put on the half-pay list until he saw his name in the  Gazette.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, he was sure the discussion had lasted quite long enough, but he wished to express his conviction, founded on several years' residence both in the north and south of Ireland, that it would be very inexpedient, without a large sprinkling of English regiments, to assemble a large number of Irish militia at the Curragh. In support of this conviction, he would relate a circumstance which happened to himself a short time ago. He was conversing with some gentlemen from his own county in the public coffee-room
 130
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, he would only trouble the House with a few observations at that late hour—eleven o'clock. He thought that, if any hon. Gentleman travelled in Ireland, he would come to only one conclusion, that there was something wrong in the system of tenure. Whether this was the fault of landlords or tenants he would not say, but any one who compared the cultivation of the land in that country with other countries, at all events, would say somebody was to blame. He thought blame attached to both parties—both landlords and tenants. But he thought it would best serve the cause of the latter by not endeavouring to recriminate either on the one side or the other. No doubt faults existed on both sides, in many instances, and it was now desirable that some fair and equitable decision should be come to. On looking at the Bill, he asked himself whether it was calculated to settle the question at issue, and he came to the conclusion that it would not be anything like a boon to landlords or tenants as described by hon. Members.
 165
 MR. RICH  said, he rose to order. He was most unwilling to interrupt the right hon. Gentleman unnecessarily, and most desirous that he should have the fullest
 108
 MR. I. BUTT  said, that the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) had argued as if the retrospective clause were a part of this Bill. He could not agree in that view, but thought that the principle of the Bill was that the existing law of landlord and tenant did not afford sufficient protection to tenants who might make improvements
 172
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he understood the proposition of the Government was to reduce the duties by one-third, but unless they were prepared to vote that 4 s. d. 176 s.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, if he was to understand that the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny (Mr. Serjeant Shee) left the 14th clause an open question for the Committee, the hon. and learned Gentleman would receive no further opposition from him (Mr. Whiteside). He wished, however, to state that the doctrine of the hon. and learned Solicitor General, speaking on the part of the Government, was the most extraordinary doctrine in reference to property that had ever fallen from the lips of a Law Officer of the Crown. He begged to remind the House that 20,000,000 l.
 MR. WILSON  opposed the amendment, and explained the principle upon which the reduction was made.
 MR. GEORGE  said, that, in resuming the discussion on this measure it was advisable that he should remind the House that the Bill before them consisted of three distinct parts, and with regard to the last part of it, relating to the consideration of the different Acts having reference to leasing powers, no great difference of opinion existed. The other portions related to the question of compensation to tenants for improvements, that part being again divided into two distinct parts, one relating to compensation for prospective improvements; and the other, and, in his opinion, the most objectionable, to compensation for retrospective improvements. In 1852 he had stated his willingness to consider favourably the question of future improvements; but he had never consented, and never would consent, to the retrospective clauses, having always regarded such clauses as a gross violation of the rights of property and of existing contracts. He wished shortly to call the attention of the House to the position in which the Government stood with reference to their Bill. It would be recollected that when the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny (Mr. Serjeant Shee) brought forward his Bill in 1852, he declared that he would not have brought it forward if he had thought it interfered with the rights of property. That Bill was the one known as Mr. Sharman Crawford's, but at the period in question he had pointed out that the hon. and learned Member had proposed to add to that Bill two clauses of a most objectionable character, and essentially destructive of property. These clauses related to what was called perpetuity of tenure, and to the compulsory valuation of land. If these clauses had become law they would have converted every man's fee simple in Ireland into a mere rent charge on the property at the good will and pleasure of the tenant. As the Members of the Government had acted on the silent system with regard to the present Bill, he must assume that they were favourable to it, and to the objectionable retrospective clauses. After the declaration made by the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland, and also that of the hon. and learned Solicitor General for Ireland, it was impossible they could sit on the Treasury bench unless they were prepared to support the measure. A conference had been held on this subject almost immediately after the election
 141 "To hold themselves perfectly independent of, and in opposition to, every Government which would not make it part of its policy and a Cabinet question to give to the tenantry of Ireland a measure fully embodying the principle of Mr. Sharman Crawford's measure." "I stand here prepared to sacrifice all expectations of power, place, or pension—to fling to the winds all considerations of advantage and emolument—provided I can successfully aid in carrying out to its fullest fruition this great project, worthy of the nation." "The retrospective clauses contained in them entrenched upon the rights of property. That a person might have bought land under the In cumbered Estates Act with a Parliamentary title, and
 142 Hansard 143 144 145
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, he regretted that the hon. Member (Mr. Adderley) had not submitted his proposition on an occasion when it might have been more deliberately discussed. He regretted also the remarks which had fallen from an hon. Gentleman with respect to the state of feeling which it was said existed between the south and the north of Ireland. Even if a bad feeling did exist there, he thought that it ought not to have been alluded to in that House. The very mention of such a thing was bad. He knew a good deal of his fellow-countrymen, and he could say for the southern portion of the inhabitants of Ireland, that they had not that aversion to the northern districts which was imputed to them by the hon. Gentleman. He confidently believed that when his fellow-countrymen were called upon to act in defence of their country, their only thought would be how they could best defend
 135
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he had very great objections to the retrospective clause, which was so worded as to be without any limitation whatever. Under the 14th clause, the man actually in possession of the property might be called upon to refund a large sum on account of improvements which might have been effected in the days of his ancestor in the twentieth degree. With that exception, however, he approved of the objects of the Bill, and should give his vote in favour of the second reading. When he considered the evils occasioned by the tenure of land in the sister country, and the manner in which the privileges and influence conferred by property had been abused, he thought they were bound to depart in some degree from the strict rights of the question. But to a clause such as he had mentioned he could never give his consent, and if sanctioned by the House, he thought they would show great ignorance of the principles of jurisprudence.
 MR. P. O'BRIEN  said, he was not prepared to enter into any compromise on the subject of the proposed elimination of the 14th clause from the Bill, which he believed to be the very essence of the Bill, but he would have no objection to consider the subject in Committee.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he wished to point out the inequality in the proposed reduction of the duty on the different classes of sugar at the conclusion of the war, he should move to substitute the figures 12 s. d. s. d.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he also considered that the change would be productive of much inconvenience.
 COLONEL GILPIN  said, he wished to state, in reference to the complaint that had been made of want of attention on the part of the War Office to the colonels of the militia, that the official communications which, as an officer of that force, he had occasion to address to those authorities, had been always met with the greatest promptitude and courtesy. The replies which he received certainly might not always have been perfectly satisfactory to him; but, as an independent Member of that House, and once sitting on the Opposition side, he felt it to be his duty to say that he had invariably found the right hon. Gentleman the late Secretary at War (Mr. S. Herbert) and the present Under Secretary of the same department, most anxious to consider what was pointed out to them as likely to benefit the service. At the same time, it was questionable whether it would not have been more advantageous for the Government to adopt a somewhat
 126 s.
 MR. MALINS  said, that the hon. and learned Solicitor General complained that he had not correctly represented what had fallen from him, because he had in the cases which he had cited referred to imputed contracts. He had not understood the hon. and learned Gentleman to be referring to that subject, and, if he did do so, it was clear that he was speaking on a subject not then under the consideration of the House. He had understood the hon. and learned Gentleman to apply those cases to the present Bill, and he thought that, in that case, he had shown that they were not applicable, and, if they were not applied to the Bill, then the hon. and learned Gentleman had been speaking to a subject not before the House.
 MR. MALINS  said, he could not allow the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General to pass without entering his solemn protest against the doctrines he had enunciated, for, unless he (Mr. Malins) had spent all his life in vain, he was justified in saying they were opposed to every principle established in the courts of equity. But he was the more astonished when he heard the hon. and learned Gentleman quote the opinions of Sir William Grant and Lord Eldon in favour of those principles, for he was convinced that if those learned Judges could have heard their authority cited in favour of such doctrines they would have started with amazement and affright from their graves. He must confess that nothing could more surprise him than to hear his hon. and learned Friend, himself a distinguished equity advocate, state that natural justice required that where a landlord had permitted his tenant to expend money in improving his property he should be prevented from recovering possession at the expiration of the lease, and cite the opinion of those eminent Judges as his authority. [The SOLICITOR GENERAL: No, no!] What, then, he asked, were they discussing—a definite question, or an uncertain theory? When he spoke of landlords and tenants, he spoke of persons having some knowledge of each other's rights; the landlord knew when his property would fall in, and the tenant when he would have to give it up; and for his hon. and learned Friend to say that, because a tenant, having
 150 151 152
 MR. DE VERE  said, he trusted that the present Bill would not be treated as a party question. He hoped that it would rather be considered upon a broad basis, and not as it affected county and county, one class or another. It had been objected that this was not an appropriate time for bringing forward such a measure; but to him it seemed peculiarly so. This was a period of profound peace in Ireland; but experience ought to have taught us that such a peace was not always permanent, and that we ought to take advantage of it for social reforms, which, in a state of agitation, were almost impossible. One of the main causes of the unfortunate condition of Ireland was the relation between landlord and tenant, and he thought the Bill of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Serjeant Shee) an excellent remedy. Let them compare the case of a poor tenant who went into the occupation of land in Ireland with one similarly placed in England. In Ireland he went into the occupation of a farm without agricultural dwellings and drains, or roads, or fences. He could only improve the farm by the expenditure of his little capital. He looked around and saw those who had invested their capital deprived of the benefit of it, and he said he would not be guilty of such imprudence. He would keep his capital in his pocket, and pay a rent proportioned to the improved value of the farm. But if he did expend his capital, the result would be that the benefit would go not to him, but to his landlord. How would the case be in England? He would find the farm as a farm ought to be, and no expenditure was needed. The law for England and Ireland was the same, but the custom unfortunately was different. The custom of England was created by public opinion; whereas in Ireland there was no public opinion, rightly so called, that public opinion which is based upon unanimity of feelings and interests between class and class, who were not in Ireland, as here, interwoven into one great whole. The Bill of the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny would effect in Ireland—would operate by law—that which in England existed by custom. The custom of England was, that the tenant should be entitled to the undiminished
 153 154
 CAPTAIN BELLEW  said, that there could be no doubt that great delay had occurred in the conduct of the militia business in Ireland; and some commanding officers there certainly had had their communications left unanswered. One officer, to his knowledge, having sent a communication to the War Office, and obtained no reply, came over from Ireland in order to have a personal interview with the authorities on a matter relating to his regiment. He (Mr. Bellow) himself had the honour to hold a commission in the militia, and could state that a desire existed among the officers and men to know when it was the intention of the Government to send out these regiments. Great demoralisation had ensued from the billeting of the militia, and steps ought long before now to have been taken to provide them with proper barracks. In one county, where there were 1,200 men, there was only accommodation for forty. The commanding officer was desired to hire buildings in which to place the men, but he declined doing so, as the hire would have amounted to 430 l. 127 Laughter.
 MR. CONOLLY  said, he understood that the House were agreed as to the propriety of reading the Bill a second time, and leaving the 14th clause open to any objection that might be raised to it in Committee.
 MR. KENNEDY  said, there was nothing novel in the principle of this Bill; it already existed in the tenant right of Ulster. If this Bill were bad, it would be a serious restriction on the tenant rights of that province. At present the tenant there could sell his rights for the highest sum he could get for them. As for the landlords of Ireland, there were some as good as any to be found elsewhere; but there were also middling and very indifferent landlords. This Bill appeared to be intended to bring those middling and inferior landlords into the good practices of the better class; and it would have the further effect of relieving a good landlord from the reproach of his bad neighbours.
 MR. KEOGH  said, they were specially exempted.
 MR. MONSELL  said, the Board of Ordnance were in no degree responsible for anything that had occurred in regard to the embarkation of the artillery force. It was true, as stated by the hon. and gallant Member for Portarlington (Colonel Dunne) that the  Candia Candia Candia
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  was proceeding to reply, when
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, in explanation, that he desired nothing better than that Her Majesty's Government should reduce their intentions and wishes to clauses upon which he should be in a position to express an opinion when he saw them.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he thought that if there was any foundation for the statement made by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. F. Peel), that the army was at this momoment 40,000 men below its estimated strength, the sooner the noble Viscount carried out the intentions which seemed to be indicated throughout his speech, the better for this country; for, if we endeavoured with so small a force to cope with the enormous military resources of Russia, we might just as well retire at once from such a contest. Connected with the information given to the House by the hon. Gentleman was a question he wished to put as to the proceedings of the agents who had been sent to Germany to enrol a Foreign Legion. He wanted to know if it was becoming the dignity of this country to enter into a sort of surreptitious war? Were the agents sent to Germany to enrol troops for us in communication with the authorities there, and had they, he should like to know, the sanction of the Sovereigns of the German States? Already, he believed, we had been subjected to some severe mortifications on this point. He had recently read that an attempt to enrol Americans for the purpose of fighting the battles of Great
 129
 MR. DUFFY  said, it seemed to him that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland, in the remarks he had just made, had omitted two material elements in his consideration of the question. The present Government were supported in that House by a number of Irish Members, who obtained their seats because they entered into an undertaking with their constituents to support no Government but one who undertook to make a Landlord and Tenants' Bill, involving the principles of Sharman Crawford's measure a Cabinet question. He now asked hon. Gentlemen opposite to make their election
 163 164 pro con
 MR. GROGAN  said, he should move the adjournment of the debate. He considered that it was most injudicious to interfere with existing contracts. There was only one exception made for the whole of Ireland, and that was grounded upon the fact that the landlords of Ireland were too cruel and hardhearted to be trusted to deal fairly by their tenants. No reason had been shown why the House should agree to the policy of the 14th clause. Every one spoke of the great utility of the Bill when this clause was expunged—but no notice had been given whether it was the intention of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Serjeant Shee) to expunge it. If he refused to do so, in what position would the House be after it had assented to the second reading of the Bill? The clause could not be condemned in stronger terms than those of the noble Viscount the First Lord of the Treasury. He (Mr. Grogan) meant to give the hon. and learned Gentleman an opportunity of stating his intentions, for he would move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 MR. GROGAN  said, with the permission of the House he would substitute the
 174
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that the irregularity which the hon. Gentleman had committed in delivering a speech at that time was not the only mistake he had made, for he had fallen into several errors more or less important. The hon. Gentleman said, for example, that while France was sending out large reinforcements to the Crimea, no additional troops were being despatched from England. [Mr. H. BAILLIE: I did not say so.] He would beg to inform the hon. Gentleman that if he had made inquiries in the proper quarter, he would have found that within the last two months upwards of 10,000 troops had gone from this country, representing a force equal to three times the number of the enemy. The hon. Gentleman had also fallen into an error respecting the embarkation of the Guards. When the  Alma 121 122 l. 123
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, in reply, that the statement of the hon. Member for Aylesbury was entirely incorrect. He could add nothing to the memorandum upon this subject which was read upon a former occasion by his hon. and gallant relative the Member for Huntingdon (General Peel). From that memorandum it appeared that Colonel Crombie, having been advised that his health had suffered so much from an attack of illness at Varna as to unfit him to return to the Crimea, applied to be placed upon the half-pay list, and so far from its being the case that the first notice he had of the circumstance was the appearance of his name in the  Gazette
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had not heard the rumour, but Her Majesty's Government would be very happy to receive them, if they were recruits for the Foreign Legion.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, if he correctly understood the hon. Member for Inverness-shire (Mr. H. Baillie), he suggested that Government, to make up the proper force of the militia, should have recourse to the ballot. His hon. Friend (Mr. F. Peel) had replied that Government did not think that they had as yet exhausted all the means of voluntary enlistment, and in confirmation of that statement he (Sir G. Grey) would read a paper which his hon. Friend had just sent for. In this paper it appeared that within the last month no less than 5,412 men had been added to the ranks of the militia, including 500 who had availed themselves of the permission given in the circular, but who had since returned and had been reattested. The whole number discharged under the circular which had been sent out from the War Office was 8,336. The deficiency, therefore, was in great measure supplied by the number which had since joined. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. H. Baillie) also suggested a separate militia staff to ensure its efficiency. Now, the embodied militia formed a part of the military force of the country within the United Kingdom, and were subject to the military authorities, and did not require a separate establishment. With respect to the charges brought against the War Office by the hon. and gallant Member for Marlow (Colonel Knox) he need not say a word. They had had the testimony borne from several quarters totally unconnected with Government with respect to the attention given by the War Office to the communications of militia officers. Before the business of the militia was transferred from the Home Office to the
 131
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the desultory debate which had taken place upon this subject was a good illustration of the extreme inconvenience of Members bringing important matters under the consideration of the House on the Motion for its adjournment until Monday. He would confine himself to two or three observations, as the subject had not been brought before the House in a formal manner. The hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Adderley) seemed to have overlooked the fact that there were two classes of convicts—namely,
 138 139
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to ask if the right hon. Baronet had heard of a rumour that a large number of Germans were expected to arrive to-morrow unexpectedly.
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, he wished to recall the attention of the House to the
 128
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  said, he was anxious that it should be clearly understood with respect to the 14th clause whether it would interfere with improvements under existing contracts. He should oppose the retrospective clause.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, as there seems to be so general an agreement as to the second reading of this Bill—["No, no!"] I did not say the agreement was unanimous. But I say, as the great majority of this House appear disposed to agree to it, I do hope the House will determine to pass the second reading this evening without further debate. The course which Her Majesty's Government are prepared to take with regard to this Bill has been fully and completely explained by my right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland; on that point, therefore,
 168 169 170 171
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Having, Sir, already made a speech upon the Motion before us, it is only by the indulgence of the House that I can be permitted to give an answer to the question put by my hon. Friend. I trust, however, that the House will not refuse to grant me that indulgence. No man can entertain a higher opinion than I do of Lord Dundonald—I have had the pleasure and honour of his acquaintance for a great number of years. He stands as high as any man ever did stand in his profession with regard to naval affairs; he is a man, moreover, of great and extensive scientific attainments; and, therefore, any opinion deliberately entertained by him is entitled to the highest and fullest consideration of the Government. The plan which Lord Dundonald proposed last year was, as my hon. Friend states, necessarily submitted to the consideration of a certain number of professional and scientific persons; and the effect of their inquiries and consideration was, that there appeared to be such difficulties of execution and such doubtful expectations as to the result that nothing was then done upon it. The plan has recently been again pressed on the consideration of the Government by Lord Dundonald. The matter is still under their consideration, and is far from being so free from doubts and difficulties as my hon. Friend seems to imagine. But all I can say is, that it is under consideration; and I think that, if there is a plan from Lord Dundonald or any other person, which is calculated to
 116
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I think, Sir, the answer which I shall have to give will have been anticipated by almost all who heard the questions of the right hon. Gentleman, who are at all acquainted with the circumstances to which he has adverted and the circumstances connected with the negotiations recently conducted by my noble Friend (Lord J. Russell). The right hon. Gentleman has referred to a case in which, in a war between England and France, negotiations were entered into directly between the two countries—a case in which it was perfectly clear in the course of the negotiations, before they were concluded, that peace was hopeless, and, peace being hopeless, it became the duty of the Government of the day to appeal to Parliament for more vigorous exertions for the prosecution of the war. If my noble Friend had gone to St. Petersburg without any previous negotiation with any other Power, and if the result of a fortnight's or a month's negotiations at St. Petersburg had proved similar to that to which the right hon. Gentleman refers, the cases would certainly have been much more parallel than they are in point of fact. It is well known that the negotiation
 111 sine die 112 113
 COLONEL KNOX  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Poor Law Board whether, among the exceptions to the entrance into the workhouse, the following was one, namely, "where any such person shall be the wife or child of any ablebodied man, who shall be in the service of Her Majesty as a soldier, sailor, or marine;" and whether, therefore, the wife or child of a soldier might not demand relief without being compelled to enter the workhouse.
 SIR GILBERT HEATHCOTE  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Under Secretary for War, whether the improvements and amelioration announced last year in the dress and accoutrements of the army, with a view to render them less cumbrous and embarrassing, and more adapted to the requirements of actual service, particularly as to stocks, knapsacks, &c., had been carried out, and to what extent, both at home and abroad.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Gentleman whether he had received any report representing that the new stock was infinitely worse than the old one.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he begged to ask the hon. Under Secretary for War, if Her Majesty's Government would take into consideration the position of those officers who had returned to this country from the Crimea wounded, and who were now in London for the purpose of attending the medical board, or for military medical attendance; and, in the absence of an hospital for officers, hire furnished houses for their accommodation, and grant them those medical comforts which their cases required.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, this was not at all the answer he wished to have. The matter was of so much consequence to the officers of the army, and especially to those of the junior grades, that he would take an early opportunity of bringing the subject under the consideration of the House.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, the hon. Gentleman, had not quoted quite correctly, the words now used in the Royal Commissions given to officers in the service of the East India Company. The words were, not "in the East Indies only," but "in the East Indies," the word "only" having been omitted by the Duke of Wellington in 1842 for a special object, and in 1854, from the general brevet, by Lord Hardinge. Since the issue of the memorandum, Lord Hardinge had sent written instructions to Sir William Gomm, directing that the words "and honorary rank in all parts of
 184 The Gazette
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the reason for the limit of fifteen days was, that abuses had occurred in sending old newspapers through the post for the purposes of sale, but if the House should think the limit too narrow, he had no objection to extend it to thirty days. As soon as the Bill became law, it was the intention of the Government to issue a lower scale of rates for printed matter not included within the definition of periodical publications, and if any old copies of a newspaper or other periodical publication should be in the possession of an editor or proprietor, it would be competent to him, after the expiration of the fifteen days, mentioned in the Bill, to affix an ordinary postage stamp, and send them through the post. He hoped that arrangement would be satisfactory to the hon. Gentleman.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he believed that at present no allowance was made for spoiled stamps; but he should inquire into the subject.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said his remark on the subject was that if the House should evince a strong wish to extend the period from fifteen to thirty days, he would not oppose it, but that his own opinion was that fifteen days was a reasonable period.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the clause to which the hon. Member referred was not intended to apply to the postage of newspapers for the colonies; and, to make this clearer, he was ready to insert the words "places within the United Kingdom."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the hon. and learned Gentleman who has last addressed us has, to say the least, adopted an unusual course in respect to the Bill now before the House. In the Committee on the Bill I proposed a clause enforcing the present copyright of newspapers by a cheaper and speedier remedy; and the hon. and learned Gentleman opposed that clause upon grounds which he then stated to the House. Now, however, he opposes the Bill, on the ground that this copyright clause was not carried. Now, Sir, that clause did not form part of the original Bill; it was not proposed by me as a necessary portion of the original measure, but upon the special grounds which I submitted to the House in moving its separate adoption. On that occasion I stated that it was alleged by certain parties that the Government, indifferent to the character and interests of the existing newspapers, had proposed a measure that would prove most detrimental to those interests, by calling into being a large class of cheap newspapers, which would prey on the property of the established journals, pilfer their intelligence, and, in fact, live on the dishonest spoils that they thus obtained. I did not state that I believed—nor do I now believe—that such a practice will prevail to any considerable extent in consequence of the Bill now before the House, should it become law. At the same time I admitted that apprehensions such as I have described were entertained by many persons, and I also stated that the present law of copyright possessed by newspapers was ineffectual; that, though it recognised their right, still the remedy it afforded them was nugatory, and could not easily be enforced. Therefore I proposed to the Committee a clause providing a more efficient remedy; the proposition was discussed, but it met with but little support from either side of the House, and I did not feel justified in pressing it to a division, being satisfied that if I did so the clause would be rejected. Therefore, looking to the circumstances under which that clause was proposed and subsequently withdrawn,
 196 The Illustrated London News. The Illustrated London News 197 198
 MR. DISRAELI : There can be but one feeling in the House with reference to what has just fallen from the noble Lord, but I think the best course would be that the debate should be adjourned.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that when the arrangement to which the hon. Gentleman referred was made by Sir Robert Peel, one-half the expenses of prosecutions at assizes and sessions, and certain charges connected with the poor laws in England, and the entire cost of the constabulary in Ireland, were transferred to the Consolidated Fund. This adjustment was not made upon the principle of taking the same local charges in England and Ireland, but of taking different charges in the two countries. If the Committee referred to the Votes, they would find in them a charge of 638,511 l.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he certainly did not think our consuls were overpaid, but he saw that the charge for some of the salaries of three or four consuls general, which appeared last year in these Estimates, had been transferred to the Consolidated Fund. He wished to know why these charges had been withdrawn from the annual scrutiny of Parliament?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Vote was for the support of a central establishment in London, which had existed almost since the days of Dr. Jenner, and which had been originated with the view of supplying proper means for vaccination throughout the country. The question of a systematic measure for enforcing vaccination was a matter which did not lie within the compass of this Vote. Some years ago, however, an Act had been passed which did establish such a system in connection with the Poor-Law Board; and he did not see what the Government could do more.
 MR. COWPER  said, that the Act in question had come down from the Lords, and that this House was, therefore, hardly answerable for its defects. However, a Bill was in contemplation to remedy those defects.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in moving the postponement of the Committee till Wednesday, he would take the liberty of making a short statement to the House in reference to a Bill which stood in his name with respect to the duties on spirits. The House would probably be aware that, as that Bill now stood, it was proposed to extend the drawback on malt spirits to England and Ireland as well as to Scotland. The present state of the law with respect to the drawback on malt spirits had given rise to considerable dissatisfaction, and had been the subject of examination by several Committees of that House. He would not trouble the House with the result of these investigations, and he was conscious that, though the Bill he intended to introduce would be an improvement upon the existing law, it would not finally and satisfactorily settle the question. He had considered a plan for permitting the distillation of spirits from malt in bond, the effect of which would be that, instead of the duty being paid in the first instance, no duty would be charged on malt, and spirits would be distilled without any previous imposition of duty upon the premises of the distiller. In order to adjust the plan properly it would be necessary to make a small addition to the existing duty, there being by the present arrangement an allowance of 2 d.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he had no wish to oppose the introduction of the Bill, but he must remind his noble Friend that the money in the hands of the Commissioners of Sewers was raised for the specific purpose of carrying out arterial drainage. Moreover, until he saw the Bill, he of course could not tell how his noble Friend proposed to invest the Commissioners with the power of entering private dwellings, until some one had complained of a nuisance.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he fully intended that the money should be recoverable. The measure was to be viewed entirely as one having reference to an emergency.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he would inquire into the circumstances of the case, and would inform the right hon. Gentleman and the House of the opinion that the Government might entertain upon it.
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  said, that there seemed to be some inconsistency in the statements which had been made in that and the other House of Parliament, on the part of Her Majesty's Government, with reference to the Commissariat arrangements for the Sardinian Contingent. It had been stated that the original agreement was, that the Sardinian Government should supply the contingent with one month's provisions, and that after that time the contingent should depend entirely for their supplies upon the English Commissariat. He begged, therefore, to ask what was the nature of the arrangement that had been entered into.
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  said, he wished to observe, with reference to 5 s.
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  said, he had heard the proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer with very great satisfaction, and was certain that it would meet with the approval of the Scotch distillers.
 227
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  said, that at Havannah we had a consul with 1,600 l. l. l. l.
 MR. LAYARD : Then, I shall bring the Resolutions forward on an early day, on the Motion for going into Committee of Supply.
 MR. LAYARD : Sir, it will doubtless be in the recollection of hon. Members, that I gave notice of my intention to propose certain Resolutions to this House, and I wish, for the convenience of the House and of the Government, to ask the First Lord of the Treasury if he will give me any day for bringing forward my Resolutions. If the noble Lord does not give me a day, I must propose them on going into Committee of Supply. I also wish to know when the Returns for which I moved some time since will be laid upon the table.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, it is now about a fortnight since the House of Commons were informed that the negotiations at Vienna had proved unsuccessful, and it is exactly a week since the unsuccessful negotiator reappeared in this House. I wish to know whether the protocols of the conferences, which Her Majesty's Government promised to produce, are ready to be laid upon the table, and if not, when they will be.
 MR. DISRAELI : I beg to give notice then, Sir, that I shall to-morrow ask Her Majesty's Government, whether they can inform us positively on what day these protocols will be laid upon the table; and, unless they can promise that the papers shall be produced very speedily, I shall call on the House to express an opinion on the subject.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he thought that, considering the number of Votes which had been agreed to without any serious opposition, the Government might well agree to postpone these Educational Votes. He observed that there were seventeen Orders on the paper, and he thought that if the noble Lord at the head of the Government had looked through those Orders, and considered which of them could fairly be brought forward, he might have been able on that evening to have got through a great deal of business. He thought that the noble Lord could safely consent to postpone the Educational Votes, and also the Committee on the Metropolis Local Management Bill. The remaining sixteen Orders were, he thought, enough to satisfy the appetite of any Government, whether a weak or a strong one.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he was always very unwilling to refer to conversations in the lobby or behind the Speaker's Chair, but he had understood that the right hon. Gentleman had undertaken not to proceed with the Bill that evening. The right hon. Gentleman said, that there was nothing in the Bill to provoke discussion before the 46th clause, but he had understood that before arriving at that clause there was an important amendment to be proposed, which involved the consideration of the propriety of altering Hobhouse's Act.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he thought parents ought not to be called upon to support children in these reformatories up to so advanced an age as sixteen. The right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary had stated that he was afraid the provision for making parents pay for the support of their children in these reformatories would be inoperative in many instances. This might be so, but even if it were operative in only one case out of twenty, the principle was a sound one and ought to be enforced. It was a monstrous and dangerous principle to lay down, that parents having refractory children should be entitled to quarter them on the public funds for their maintenance. As to the emigration of children from the reformatory at Red Hill, he thought that was a decided mistake. If all that was wanted was to send them to another country, why not send them at once, instead of first maintaining them in this institution? The fact was, however, that this country could not now afford to lose her citizens, her position in this respect being quite different to that in which she stood a few years ago.
 MR. COWAN  said, he wished to draw attention to the unfair manner in which Edinburgh had been treated with respect to this Vote. While a pecuniary grant was made to the institution in London, a similar one in the northern capital had actually been compelled to purchase, or promise to purchase, for 5,000 l.
 MR. CAYLEY  said, he thought the hon. Member for Manchester should be the last man to talk of abolishing the system of retransmission. That hon. Member was in the habit of telling them that the agricultural districts were less enlightened than the towns; but how were they to be politically enlightened, except by the circulation among them of newspapers? By means of news-rooms one newspaper might be made to serve twenty or thirty people in a town; but it was very different in the country. A newspaper, after being read by one subscriber in the country, was sent perhaps three or four miles off to another, and so on for ten days or a fortnight before it had reached all the subscribers. These people had their friends and families
 187 188
 MR. FRENCH  said, he very much doubted whether the services of these gentlemen were wanted in their double capacity.
 MR. FRENCH  said, there were two inspectors of prisons appointed by the Irish Government, at salaries of 535 l. l. l.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he did not mean to oppose the Motion for the third reading,
 185
 MR. HADFIELD : Perfectly satisfactory; but what about the drawback?
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he must maintain that Sir Robert Peel distinctly laid it down, that inasmuch as Ireland was essentially a corn-growing country, she was entitled to be relieved of many of her county charges when the corn laws were repealed.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, that on the part of the Irish Members and Irish distillers, he considered the statement of the right hon. Gentleman was most satisfactory.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he wished to call the attention of the Committee to the injustice that was done to Ireland in throwing the expenses of criminals and witnesses in criminal prosecutions upon the counties. The late Sir Robert Peel, when he proposed the repeal of the corn laws, admitted that Ireland was entitled to relief in that respect, while the late Chancellor of the Exchequer gave a pledge that the matter should be looked into. Now, here was Ireland going to have an increased income tax, besides an increased tax upon spirits, thrown upon her, and yet no relief was proposed in the shape of a transfer of some of these charges to the Consolidated Fund.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he hoped that the estimate No. 4 would not be pressed, as several of the items would lead to discussion, and in consequence of the alteration in the business for the night, a number of Gentlemen who intended to take part in that discussion were absent. He
 207
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, that he believed the Governor had no salary as such, but had 5,000 l. l. l.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he wished to obtain some information with regard to the present state of the African slave trade.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he wished to draw attention to the circumstance that there was no Government emigration agent at any port between Plymouth and Liverpool, and would suggest that an emigration agent should be established at Bristol.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he wished to know what number of convicts we had now abroad? He wished the Vote were larger, as he thought the ticket-of-leave system would in a few years break down; but at the same time there seemed to be this year a considerable increase in salaries.
 MR. VANSITTART  said, it was his intention to move that the Bill be read a third time that day six months. He considered that he was justified in making this Motion, notwithstanding the large majority in its favour on a former occasion, because since then the Chancellor of the Exchequer had brought forward his Budget, imposing a great amount of taxation on the people. Moreover, he could not find any one thoroughly pleased with the Bill. All agreed to dissent to it, except the hon. Members for Manchester, and, as far as he had an opportunity of ascertaining the feelings of people, the measure did not seem to be wished for at all. The chief reason which existed for the introduction of the present Bill was the difficulty which the law officers laboured under of defining what was a newspaper; but he did not see how that difficulty was to be got rid of, unless the system of taking securities was altogether abandoned. It was agreed on all hands that great injustice might arise from the measure, and that the character of our press ran some danger of being injured by it, because, if the profits of the newspapers were injured, the character of the newspapers must fall. Seeing, then, that great injustice might be effected by the Bill if it should pass, and that a great amount of revenue would be perilled by it, he felt he was justified in moving that the Bill be read a third time that day six months.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he voted against the original introduction of the Bill simply on the ground that it was very unadvisable that, when the financial state of the country was not before the House, they should determine to part with any portion of the revenue; but upon the merits of the Bill itself he was not disposed to reject it, and therefore he should vote against the Amendment. He must say one word in allusion to the remark of the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), that the Chancellor of the Exchequer should take the earliest opportunity of getting rid of the retransmission of newspapers altogether. He agreed with that hon. Gentleman, that they had a deep interest in the diffusion of political intelligence and useful information by means of
 190
 MR. WHITESIDE : Sir, from what has fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, I fear I must assume that the right hon. Gentleman will not consent to the Amendments which I have put on the paper, and I have no alternative, therefore, but to oppose the further progress of this Bill. It is never too late to do justice, and, as I am of opinion that I have been instrumental in doing an act of injustice, it is my duty, so far as I can, to remedy it. I do not blame the Chancellor of the Exchequer for bringing forward this Bill, for I am not sure that it is his original measure. The House will do well to consider the extraordinary state in which this Bill now appears before it; various clauses have appeared, disappeared, and reappeared during its progress, and it is, Indeed, very difficult at this moment accurately to understand the precise position in which the Bill stands. I wish, for a moment, however, to direct the attention of the House to the effect of the clauses which the right hon. Gentleman has proposed and which have been rejected. Take, for instance, the clause which the right hon. Gentleman has proposed for the purpose of giving to the newspaper press a copyright in their productions. Now, why did the right hon. Gentleman propose that clause? I hope I am doing him no injustice in saying that I think he proposed it from a conscientious belief that this Bill would work a serious injustice on existing newspapers. I put it to the reasoning mind of the right hon. Gentleman whether he does not, by the fact of his having proposed such a clause, placed himself in the position of having admitted before Parliament and the country that he was about to inflict an injury on existing interests, and that he felt himself bound, therefore, to provide a remedy. The right hon. Gentleman attempted to apply a remedy, but upon discussion I was unfortunately compelled to move the rejection of his clause, because I felt the remedy he proposed to be perfectly impossible in practice. We have therefore now
 191 Geo. 192 The Times 193 "The newspaper duties produce about 355,000 l. d. The Times 194 "The limitation of the size of supplements given away gratis might, however, be advantageously set aside. It indirectly lessens the advertisement duty, and is, in all respects, impolitic." 195
 MR. WILSON  said, the payments were regulated on the principle that the consuls were on leave of absence.
 MR. WILSON  said, that the Vote for English education had been postponed at the request of several hon. Members, but he hoped the Committee would go on with the other Votes.
 MR. WILSON  said, that the next Vote was that for Education in England, and as a sum had been taken on account, he would postpone it, in order that the discussion on the subject which was expected might take place.
 MR. WILSON  said, he must explain that the 325 l. 224
 MR. WILSON  said, he had no doubt the Act of 1853 was beneficial, and last year several hon. Members pointed out its great utility. At the same time he did not deny that improvements might be made in it. The 300 l. l.
 MR. WILSON  said, no general rule had been adopted; the present Vote depended on the peculiar circumstances of the case.
 MR. WILSON  said that the Vote, which was formerly very large, had been transferred from the civil contingencies in 1843. Some five or six years ago the House resolved that there should be no further charge made in respect of it: it would therefore cease when the present recipients died off. There was no diminution this year, as none had died within the year. The fund was distributed by trustees.
 MR. WILSON  said, he was aware that complaints had been made on this subject, but the restrictions complained of were rendered necessary for the purpose of preventing the shipment of warlike stores to neutral countries for transmission to Russia. Securities for this purpose were of course expensive; and certificates of the landing of the stores at the countries they were professedly shipped for were essential. As to the suggestion of the hon. Member, with respect to general certificates for entire cargoes, it could not be practically carried out, as it would be impossible to divide the responsibility of the shippers, or cast the whole on the shipowner; the only course was to make each shipper responsible for his own share. Great consideration had been given to the subject, and the utmost had been done to prevent needless inconvenience.
 MR. WILSON  said, that the payments would not continue beyond the second year, when arrangements would be made for discontinuing them. Care was also taken to appoint these consuls to other stations.
 MR. BRADY  said, the noble Lord had not adverted to the question of the propriety of continuing the receiving fees.
 MR. BRADY  said, this Vote was too small to be of the slightest use. It was fearful to contemplate the ravages which small-pox had made of late years; he considered that the Government ought to organise a complete system of vaccination.
 MR. BRADY  said, the Act had proved to be an admitted failure. At the present time the operator had not the means of knowing with certainty whether what he used was the true vaccine lymph; and many cases had come within his knowledge, in which children had imbibed loathsome, and even mortal diseases, from having been inoculated from unhealthy persons.
 MR. BRADY  said, he did not find fault with the institution. All he said was, that it was not sufficient, and that the country was deceived in supposing they had an effective vaccine institution.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, they all knew that when it was understood that the Chancellor of the Exchequer was willing to do something more than he thought reasonable there was generally a probability of a
 186
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he was sorry to hear that the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed to extend the time for the transmission of newspapers. [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: No.] He had understood the right hon. Gentleman to say he was willing to extend it from fifteen to thirty days.
 MR. FLOYER  said, that in referring to the vote of 3,620 l.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, that the greatest discontent prevailed in consequence of emigrants arriving at the different ports from a great distance, being sent in vessels not properly suited for the purpose.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he did not complain of the Vote, for he must admit that the persons appointed as consuls by the present Government had efficiently performed their duty, much more efficiently than consuls generally had done. What he complained of was the unequal salaries given to various consuls. Some had heavy duties to perform with small salaries, while others who had light duties had high salaries. If any class ought to be remunerated it was those consuls who represented this country in great commercial cities.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he believed these places were entire sinecures. He did not know of his own knowledge that this was the case, but representations had been made to him on the subject, not only strong, but clear. Instead of having three such officers at the Cape they should be distributed in places where their services would be more effective. He believed that Havannah, Porto Rico, and some other outports of Cuba were the places at which the country ought to have its strongest
 212
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he was not objecting to a child of that age being taken out of the hands of their parents, but to its being made the object of criminal jurisprudence.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, one great defect in our law was, the age at which a child might be made the object of our criminal jurisprudence. Nothing could be more shocking than to see children of seven years old brought before the magistrates, and we might in this follow with advantage the example of the canon law, which fixed the age of nine for girls and ten for boys, until which time children
 205
 MR. AYSHFORD WISE  said, that the Committee which sat on the subject of official salaries in 1850 did not inquire into the salaries of our consuls, but in their report they recommended that that branch of the question should form the
 213 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 214 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 215
 MR. HENLEY  said, small-pox last year had raged like a pestilence; and therefore they had grave reason for doubting whether the operation of vaccination was efficiently performed under the present system. He did not believe they wanted more Acts of Parliament. What they wanted was, adequate remuneration to medical men. If medical men were paid properly for doing their duty, vaccination would not be performed in so hasty a manner, and the poor people would be more ready to avail themselves of it.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that, in reverting to the subject of reformatory schools, he thought that where children were placed in these establishments had attained an age at which they might reasonably be expected to maintain themselves out of prison, their parents, who were earning small wages, should not be required to support children of whose services they were deprived.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to know whether the diminution in this estimate had arisen either from an increase in the number of prisoners sent abroad, or from the large number discharged with tickets of leave?
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was glad to think, from the diminution of the number of prisoners, that crime was decreasing. Was the number of convicts sent out greater or less than usual?
 MR. BAINES : In reply, Sir, to the question of the hon. and gallant Gentleman, I beg to state that poor persons of this class cannot legally insist upon outdoor relief if the guardians for any particular reason think it right to administer relief in the workhouse. On the other hand, however, the guardians in every union in England and Wales are at perfect liberty to give them outdoor relief if they think fit to do so. Even in those unions where the prohibitory order, as it is called, renders outdoor relief to the ablebodied generally illegal, there is an express exception in favour of the wife or child of any soldier, sailor, or marine, in Her Majesty's service. The same rule applies to the wife or child of any militiaman on duty. The result is, that the discretion of the guardians in giving outdoor relief to poor persons of this class is wholly unfettered either by the general law or by any order of the Poor Law Board; and I am happy to be able to add that, so far as my information goes, the guardians throughout the country are exercising this discretion in a very considerate and humane spirit.
 MR. KENDALL  said, he believed that the evil was owing to the practice which existed in some Unions of ordering poor persons to attend for vaccination on particular days in the week. The parties did not come, and so the thing was neglected.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he was decidedly of opinion that it was now time that a stop should be put to promoting emigration. He had always thought it bad policy
 209
 MR. SPOONER  said, he thought the statement of the Home Secretary unsatisfactory. The right hon. Gentleman said, that the Vote was merely intended to furnish protection to those who emigrated on their own account, and to provide for the proper distribution of the funds sent from the colonies; but he (Mr. Spooner) considered the sum of 8,700 l.
 MR. THORNELY  said, he complained of the hardships inflicted on merchants by requiring so many certificates on landing goods. A number of articles, innocent in themselves, had now become contraband of war, and, if there were fifty different bales of goods which came within the prohibited degrees in a ship, fifty certificates would be required before they could be
 220
 MR. HANKEY  said, it was his intention of asking to-morrow if the right hon. Gentleman proposed to make a similar concession in favour of sugar.
 MR. BARROW  said, he would point out lo the hon. and learned Member the youthful till-robbers, who, at the age of seven or eight, were extremely clever in their vocation, and ought certainly to be taken out of the hands of their parents.
 MR. BARROW  said, he fully concurred in what had been stated by the hon. Member for Dorsetshire (Mr. Floyer) as to the impropriety of placing the two classes of lunatics in the same asylum.
 MR. W. EWART  said, he had understood that the object of this Bill was to bring newspapers into their normal state, and not to continue the retransmission of them. He had always thought that newspapers should be allowed to spring up wherever they were wanted—and if that view was sound, why should they endeavour to prop up existing newspapers by means of retransmission? In the Committee on Stamp Duties some proprietors of American newspapers were examined, and they all stated that their newspapers were sustained not by a system of retransmission but by cheapness of price. In America country people bought a newspaper for a cent; in England they would assuredly have newspapers at a penny, if not a halfpenny. It was cheapness that they should encourage, and not retransmission.
 MR. W. EWART  said, it was his intention to have brought forward a Motion in reference to the examination of candidates for diplomatic service. He hoped there would be no objection to his bringing it on, on going into Committee of Supply upon some other occasion.
 MR. KEOGH  said, that a Bill was
 200
 MR. OTWAY  said, he very much objected to the continuance of the fees on obtaining passports. Although, of course, a traveller was subject to the regulations of Sardinia, or any State through which he passed, yet it was very hard that the English consuls should pounce upon Englishmen for fees, and these, he thought, might very well be done away with. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had very eloquently described the functions of consuls, which he had said were not only diplomatic, but also commercial and judicial. He (Mr. Otway) had met with a great many consuls who were always exceedingly civil and attentive, but had never met with one who was appointed because he was eminently qualified for his office. Such appointments were generally given for private considerations. He wished to ask how long reduced salaries were to be paid to our Russian consuls, for he thought that, in the event of the war continuing for some years, it would be absurd to continue such payments.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he thought it would be satisfactory if the noble Lord would give the Committee some information as to the number of slaves upon whom these Gentlemen were called to arbitrate.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that when the proper time arrived he should be prepared to move that the House go into Committee on that Bill. He believed that up to the 46th clause there would be no objection to the Bill, and when that clause was arrived at he would consider the propriety of adjourning the discussion to a future day.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he hoped that the House would consent to go into Committee on the Bill when the proper time arrived. He had that afternoon, when he saw that there was a chance of being able to proceed with the Bill, sent a message to the noble Lord who had just sat down, by the hon. Member for Westminster, informing him that such was the case, and he hoped that there would not be any objection to go into Committee on the Bill that evening.
 MR. DUFFY  said, he could not understand the argument of the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright). It might be desirable to abolish the penny stamp, but so long as it continued, newspapers should have the same advantages which they had hitherto enjoyed. A great practical evil would arise from the abolition of the system of retransmission, and even from the limit of fifteen days defined in the Bill. At present there was only one mail in the month to Australia. If there were no power of retransmission, comparatively few papers could be sent to Australia and the other colonies; while, under the clause as it stands, there would be thirteen daily papers every month which could never be sent to Australia at all. Then, again, it would occasion much cost and loss of time at the Post Office to examine newspapers for the purpose of ascertaining whether they were posted after the allowed period. He therefore asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer to extend the limit for posting newspapers to a month after the publication, or to leave the provision on this point altogether out of the Bill.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that the medical board, he believed, met twice a week, and if it were found necessary, they would hold more frequent meetings. The hon. and gallant Member seemed not to be aware, that under the existing regulations gratuities were allowed to officers to cover the expenses incurred during the time they were suffering from the effects of wounds.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, he had reason to believe, on the contrary, that it was infinitely better.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  in reply, said, that the improvements which it had been determined to make in the dress and accoutrements of the army had, he believed, been carried out as far as circumstances would allow, but, of course, some time must necessarily elapse before they were universally adopted. With regard to
 182
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, he begged to inform the hon. Gentleman that, as the Returns for which he had moved were very voluminous, their preparation would necessarily occupy a considerable time, but he would take care that they were produced without any unnecessary delay.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I am not able, Sir, to give a definite answer to the right hon. Gentleman's question. I know, however, that my noble Friend the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs is preparing the papers to which the right hon. Gentleman refers for presentation, and that they will be laid before the House on the earliest possible day.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : The inspectors of English prisons receive no additional payment, but they do not perform the duties chargeable upon the Irish inspectors in relation to the counties.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Much the same. Western Australia is the only colony to which convicts are sent under sentence of transportation, Convicts are sent to Bermuda and Gibraltar to assist in the public works, as they are sent to Portland, Chatham, and Portsmouth. A fixed number are sent to Western Australia—about 600 or 700 a year, care being taken not to send more than the state of the labour-market requires.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the estimate of prisoners last year, for which the Vote was taken, had not been reached and the present vote consequently exhibited a diminution. The system of granting tickets of leave and letters of licence was being carefully watched. He had ordered returns to be made out, of every prisoner convicted even for vagrancy, who was known to be the holder of a letter of licence, in order that it might be revoked, upon the ground that the object for which it had been granted had not been accomplished. In cases were parties were only committed for trial it would not be fair to withdraw the licence, and it would be merely suspended until the result of the trial was known. The number of ticket-holders recommitted was positively, but not comparatively large; but returns were being collected which would give the Committee full information on the subject.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he must explain that the estimate of 2,000 l. s. l.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the children sent to Redhill were not sent under the Act of last Session. With regard to institutions under that Act, the Treasury would pay the whole cost of the maintenance of the inmates, as distinct from the expenses of the establishment, and 5 s. s.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, a considerable portion of the expense of maintaining criminal lunatics in private asylums was paid by the public. He concurred in much, however, that had been said by the hon. Gentleman opposite, and hoped to be able I next year to come to some arrangement by which better accommodation might be provided for criminal lunatics at the charge of the Government.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the offence must be proved, and to prove the offence legal proceedings must be instituted against the child.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in consequence of the discoveries of gold in Australia it had been found necessary to raise the salaries of officers in order to retain them in the public service. The reduction in the number of convicts sent to Australia was very considerable. The only place to which they were now conveyed was—as he had stated at an earlier period of the evening— West Australia, and the number did not exceed 500 or 600 annually.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the institution in Ireland was essentially a criminal one, similar to Parkhurst.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought the hon. Gentleman could not mean that the children immediately after committal should be sent out to the colonies, because that would evidently be a premium to crime. As to the emigration of children from Red Hill, that was left to the discretion of the manager of that institution.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that it was
 204
 SIR GEGRGE GREY  said, that Sir John Bowring's expenses were great, and his duties requiring him to be taken away very often from Hong-Kong, it was necessary to have a lieutenant-governor on the spot.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the emigration officers at the ports were appointed for the express purpose of seeing that the ships were seaworthy, and of deciding disputes which might arise. The board had a large sum of money to dispose of; it had the general superintendence of those agents at the ports; it had to answer innumerable letters, and to discharge generally very onerous and important duties. It was not improbable, however, that a reduction would shortly take place in the number of the Commissioners.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that if the colonists who provided the funds in question wished that the agents at the ports should be appointed by themselves instead of by the Emigration Board, he apprehended
 210
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the Vote was not intended to promote emigration, but to protect emigrants against the frauds and impositions to which they might be subject at the different ports of embarkation. With respect to Australian, or what was called Government emigration, no portion of the funds of this country were applied to that object. The money for that purpose was sent over by the colonial authorities, and its administration was entrusted to the Emigration Commissioners, but no inducement to emigrate was held out by the Government, beyond the circumstance of the colonial funds being placed in the hands of the Emigration Board for distribution.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the subject had been brought under his notice by a memorial from Bristol. He had referred that memorial to the Emigration Commissioners; and he did not think, from the Report which they had made, that it would be desirable to incur the expense which the establishment of such a Board would involve, because he believed that the necessities of the public were already sufficiently provided for.
 SIR JOHN DUCKWORTH  said, he considered that, although 5 s.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was struck with the disproportion of the amount granted for the establishment at Redhill and for the others. He could not help expressing his disapprobation that the Redhill establishment, which was the oldest and the best in the country, should not be open for the reception of juvenile offenders under the Act of last year. Government
 202
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to know whether this Vote had anything besides its antiquity to recommend it, and whether the 300 l. l. 223
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, there was an omission in the Estimates of a Vote which ought to be included, as formerly, in the Colonial Estimates. He had last year called attention to the peculiar and painful position in which the Bishop of New Zealand was placed, which was acknowledged by the Government, who granted him an income for the year. The right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey) also wrote a despatch to the colonial Government of New Zealand, expressing a hope that the Parliament of New Zealand would pass a Vote for the support of the bishop from the colonial funds. He understood that this hope had been altogether frustrated, and that the Legislature had met and been dissolved without having passed any such Vote. In March last the term for which the income had been granted, expired, and the bishop was now without any income whatever to compensate him for his services as Bishop of New Zealand.
 225
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to know if the Government would extend the principle of contributions to institutions that received female prisoners on their discharge from gaol to all institutions of that nature?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that the consul at St. Petersburg, who was in the receipt of 750 l. l. l.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he observed that a sum of 5,000 l. l. 201
 SIR ERSKINE PERRY  said, he wished to ask the right hon. President of the Board of Control whether, in Her Majesty's Commissions granting military rank to officers in the service of the East India Company, the words "in the East Indies only" were in future to be omitted; or, whether it was merely intended, under the order which appeared in  The Gazette
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he wished to know what was the decrease in the Vote for this year, and by what department the fund was distributed?
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, that he had believed the right hon. Gentleman to have entered into a distinct understanding not to proceed with the measure that evening.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he trusted that his right hon. Colleague would not proceed with the Bill that evening; and, indeed, he had understood that it was not his intention to do so.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he would agree to the postponement of the Educational Votes; as to the Metropolis Management Bill, he did not know what course his right hon. Friend the Member for Marylebone intended to pursue.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he must beg to remind the hon. Gentleman that when a question regarded the character of one large class of public servants it was more becoming, before the accusation was made in specific terms, to ascertain whether it rested upon any foundation whatever. The hon. Member had read a letter containing sweeping charges of a very deep character against the British consuls in the Levant. The charge was supported by no one fact whatever. It might come just as well from a person who had no ground at all for making it, as from a person who had some real ground of complaint. All he could say was, that if any person, whether Turk or Christian, Englishman or foreigner, had any complaint to make against any consular agent in the Levant or anywhere else, he knew
 216 217 218 219
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the last lurking place of slavery was Mozambique, to the east of the Cape of Good Hope, and when a vessel was seized there she was taken to the nearest point. If a ship were taken between Mozambique and the Cape, and were taken to Havannah, the sufferings of the negroes would he intense. It would be seen, therefore, that it was absolutely necessary to maintain those Courts at the Cape of Good Hope.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he believed that, with respect to Brazil, the progress that had been made was satisfactory. So far as his information went, and it was confirmed by the statements made repeatedly to him during the last twelve months by the Brazilian Minister at the British Court, the importation of slaves into Brazil had entirely ceased. The result had been, that the capital formerly employed in that abominable traffic had been diverted into other channels—that the trade of the country was becoming more and more developed—that roads were in course of construction, railways were planned, and that improvements of all kinds were going on. He was afraid that to a certain extent the slave trade was still carried on in Cuba, not simply from Africa, but from Brazil, for the Brazilians complained that some of their slaves had been carried off to Cuba. The number of slaves imported into Cuba was incomparably smaller than the number formerly introduced into Brazil, the Brazilian importation having ranged from 30,000 or 40,000 to 60,000 or 70,000. The utmost number supposed to be landed in Cuba was some 2,000 or 3,000, but it was difficult to ascertain the precise number. The Spanish
 211
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that in order to deal with vessels of different nations, we were obliged to have mixed Commission Courts established. There was at the Cape a British Judge, and a Judge of the country with which we had a treaty. Those Judges appointed an arbitrator between them for which the Judges drew lots. Sometimes, therefore, the British Judge appointed an arbitrator, and sometimes the Judge of the other country, whichever it might be. The registrar was an officer who kept the records of the Court.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that by Act of Parliament, certain charges were created on the Consolidated Fund to cover the whole of the diplomatic salaries and pensions. When diplomatic relations were opened with some of the South American republics it was not thought expedient to give them the character of simple diplomatic agents with salaries paid out of the Consolidated Fund. The functions assigned to these agents were of a mixed character, diplomatic and consular; and they were allowed 1 l.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that the observation he had made on the consuls having diplomatic functions to perform
 221
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that if they were abolished it would be necessary to make allowances for clerks and offices; and therefore, on the whole, it was thought desirable that these fees, which were very small, should be continued, especially as they were in exact proportion to the duty performed.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I really, Sir, cannot undertake to find the hon. Gentleman a day; he must find one for himself.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON , having subsequently entered the House, said that the papers would be ready the next day, and that the cause of the delay which had taken place in their presentation, was the temporary illness of a person in the Foreign Office, in whoso department it lay to translate papers of that description.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the arrangement was, that for whatever period the Sardinian Government provided supplies, in the first instance, for their force, after the lapse of that time the Sardinian Contingent should draw their supplies from the British Commissariat, the Sardinian Government paying for those supplies. I will also take this opportunity of stating, that on this day week my noble Friend at the head of the War Department (Lord Panmure) will explain, in his place in the other House of Parliament, the arrangements Her Majesty's Government intend to make, with the view of consolidating several military departments of the Administration.
 Mr. SPEAKER  adjourned the House till  To-morrow.
 MR. HOWARD  begged to corroborate the statements of the hon. and learned Member for Newcastle respecting the facility with which marriages were made up in the northern counties. They were scarcely considered valid, and hardly a single fair took place without several cases of bigamy resulting from it. He hoped the House would apply an effective remedy to so great an evil.
 MR. HEADLAM,  having presented petitions praying for an amendment of the present law respecting border marriages, moved the second reading of this Bill; and said, that, in asking the House to agree to the measure, his object was, not to make any trifling, unimportant, or mere theoretic change in the marriage law of Scotland, but he desired, in the most practical manner possible, to redress an evil the magni-
 230 231 232 l. l.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, he felt bound to oppose the Bill of his hon. and learned Friend, which, while its professed object
 236 l. l.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, that had the Lord Advocate held out any hope that a larger measure of amendment of the Scotch marriage law would be introduced by the Government he should not have pressed the present Bill upon the House; but he did not see the slightest sign of such a result, though it might be easily effected by the introduction of a clause in the Scotch Registration Bill. Two or three
 238
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, my hon. Friend concluded his speech with the enunciation of a principle in which I for one am disposed cordially to agree—namely, that we ought to be on our guard against making our own peculiar convictions a compulsory basis of action for others. But the whole, or at least a large part, of the question at issue in this debate is this:—Whether those who support this Bill are justified in stamping the principles embodied in our marriage law which is now sought to be shaken, with the name
 270 271 272 273 274 275 276 277 278 279 280
 MR. ELLIOT  considered, that the Bill proposed to deal in a very petty manner with a question of vast importance to the people of Scotland. There was no doubt that the marriage law of Scotland required amendment, and he regretted that the general measure for the amendment of that law which was introduced by Lord Rutherford when he was Lord Advocate, had not been adopted. If this Bill would merely affect the Border marriages, which took place at Gretna-green, Coldstream-bridge, Lamberton-toll, and Berwick, he (Mr. Elliot) would not object to it; but the terms of the first clause were so general that the measure would interfere with the current practice of marriage throughout Scotland. He considered that a matter of so much importance ought to be dealt with by a large and comprehensive measure, and he hoped the Lord Advocate would at an
 234
 LORD LOVAINE  thought the hon. Member for Roxburgh (Mr. Elliot) had not shown any sufficient grounds for the rejection of this measure, the object of which was merely to define and to enforce practically the existing law of Scotland. No one who saw the state of things on the Border could deny that the Bill was necessary. All the English Members wanted was protection for England, and it would be too hard to compel them to wait for a revision of the whole marriage law of Scotland. It had been said that the Bill was levelled against the poor; but the same thing had been done with success in England in the suppression of the Fleet marriages, which were analogous to irregular marriages in Scotland, in the reign of George II. A doubt had been expressed as to whether the Bill would effect the object at which it aimed. On that point he must remind the hon. Gentleman that the punishment imposed by this Bill upon the parties to irregular marriages was not confined to a pecuniary penalty, but that in default of paying the penalty such parties would be liable to imprisonment; and he believed that regulation would have a material effect in checking clandestine marriages, for the great majority of the persons who now contracted these marriages were not in a position to pay a penalty of 10 l. 235
 MR. DUNLOP  denied that the Bill would introduce confusion into the law of Scotland; it would not effect any alteration in the existing law, but would render it more efficient. According to the present Scotch law, if a clergyman married parties without the previous proclamation of banns, he was liable to a most serious punishment; whereas if a blacksmith or a toll-keeper, or any other person in the same station of life, married persons without a religious ceremony, he experienced little inconvenience in consequence. This was a distinction which ought not to exist, and the Bill would in some degree tend to remove it. To throw out the Bill altogether when the second clause was universally admitted to be a good one, would be highly inexpedient. It would be much better to let it go to a Committee. He admitted that the general state of the law required consideration, but that was no reason why this partial remedy should be refused.
 MR. SPEAKER  said: Before proceeding to any other business, I beg to express my most grateful acknowledgments to the House for their kind indulgence to me yesterday evening and the evening before; and I very much regret if, in consequence of there being no House last night, which was entirely on my account, any hon. Member should have been put to inconvenience.
 MR. HEYWOOD,  in reply, said, he was quite willing to tell the right hon. Gentleman the principle upon which the Bill was founded. It was founded upon the principle of expediency, and was introduced to accommodate the prevailing public opinion of the day. A case had been brought under his notice which induced him to wish for the retention of the clause relating to a wife's niece. A clergyman of Buckinghamshire married twenty-five years ago, and lost his wife at the end of a year. He remained a widower for twenty years, and then married his deceased wife's niece, upon which he was suspended by the Bishop of Oxford. He thought this was a case of hardship and of ecclesiastical tyranny.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  agreed with many of the remarks of his hon. and learned Friend, and would admit that the Bill would not make any alteration in the principle of the law of Scotland, but would only increase the penalties which were imposed by the existing law upon parties contracting these irregular marriages. Indeed it was so far from being the case that these irregular marriages were not punishable by the existing law, that one of the most usual modes of preserving a record of such marriages was for parties who had contracted them to go before a justice of the peace to declare their offence, and, having been subjected to the small fine inflicted under the law, to obtain a certificate of the conviction. The object of the hon. and learned Member was, to render a penalty which was now merely nominal a real punishment, and therefore it could not be said the Bill violated the law of Scotland. According to the law of Scotland, marriage was constituted by con-
 233
 MR. J. FORSTER  trusted the House would consent to a second reading of the Bill, and allow it to be referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  must oppose the Bill; for he objected to partial, incomplete, and local legislation. Instead of applying a great remedy to a great evil, the House was asked to pass a measure of trifling legislation to an evil of very minor importance.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE,  who rose amidst loud cries for a division, said, that after the speeches of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Plymouth, and the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford, he could have no hesitation in voting in favour of the Bill, because he felt that their arguments went to the destruction of the right of private judgment, and to the establishment of the doctrine of an infallible Church.
 MR. NAPIER  was of opinion that this Bill would not have any effect in repressing the evil against which it was directed. He considered that the proper course would be to declare that if persons not domiciled in Scotland went to that country in order to contract marriages there, according to the Scotch law such marriages should be void. In Scotland, although a religious ceremony was not deemed essential to the constitution of marriage, yet the custom among the respectable classes was to have the religious ceremony, and this consequently created a difficulty in the way of legislation on the subject. But by far the greater number of irregular marriages were those of persons from England and Ireland, who went to Scotland for the purpose of availing themselves of the privileges of the Scotch law. The Bill did not prohibit or prevent those marriages, because it required no licence; neither did it meet the case of minors declaring themselves of age—a case of which had recently occurred where one of the parties was only fourteen years of age, and which had introduced inconceivable misery into a family. He thought one practice in Scotland with respect to marriage demanded speedy amendment. He alluded to the custom of betrothing young persons by declaration of marriage, even at the early ages of twelve or fourteen, and thus irrevocably binding them to a conjugal union. He believed that this Bill, which merely imposed penalties upon parties to irregular marriages, without declaring those marriages void, would not prevent any but persons who were too poor to pay the penalty from violating the law; and they would, therefore, by adopting the measure, practically subject the poor to the operation of a law which would not affect the rich. He would on these grounds give his support to the Amendment.
 MR. COBDEN  said, that on entering the House that day it had not been his intention to have said a word upon that question; but the majority of those hon. Members who were in favour of the Bill must have found their logical good sense so outraged by the splendid fallacies of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the Uni-
 283 284 285 286
 MR. SPOONER  said, that, as he had been directly appealed to by the right hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat, and by the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth, he felt called upon to trespass for a short time upon the attention of the House. The right hon. Gentleman had asked upon what principle the supporters of the Bill were proceeding, and at what point in carrying out their views with respect to the subject of marriage they proposed to stop. His answer to the latter question was, that he, for one, was prepared to go in the direction of the contemplated legislation only so far as, ac-
 281 282
 MR. INGHAM  said, that, in addition to the facility of being married, there was also to be considered the facility of deception afforded by the present state of the law. The boundary line between England and Scotland was, in many districts, an imaginary one, and he knew cases in which honest women were deceived into the belief that they were being married in Scotland according to the Scotch law, whereas they were on the English side of the Border; and the marriage was consequently invalid. He thought that the enactments would be greatly improved if the penalties were extended to every one who was accessory to an irregular marriage. He thought that the Bill might be made an extremely valuable one by means of a few alterations in Committee.
 MR. LOWE  apprehended that, whatever inconsistency there might be in declaring the same thing to be incest in Scotland which was made lawful in England, that inconsistency was not greater than the one involved in the Act of which the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. R. Palmer) had himself been the virtual defender and apologist, and which affirmed that all marriages of the very same description as those they were now considering, which were contracted before a certain year, were to be regarded as to all intents and purposes lawful and valid, while all those that were contracted subsequently to that date should be held to be unlawful and invalid. No doubt the hon. and learned Gentleman, in his very able address, had adduced arguments of a cogent character against polygamy; but, with all due de-
 264 onus probandi 265 266 267 268 269
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  had certainly heard the hon. and learned Gentleman say that he did not consider this as a part of the law which was binding on Christians. [Mr. PHINN: Not necessarily.] Exactly so; not necessarily binding. With regard, then, to the first of these two grounds, he thought those who opposed this innovation had considerable reason to complain of the manner in which their arguments had been misrepresented or misunderstood by their opponents. They were charged on that occasion, as they had often been charged before, with having retired from their religious grounds of opposition—a charge for which there was not the slightest foundation. On the contrary, what the supporters of the present state of the law said was, that if they entered into the argument on the religious question at all it was under protest, and not feeling it incumbent upon them to do so; and, further, not presuming to rest that question upon their own powers of argument, nor supposing that their individual views as to the proper mode of stating and discussing it ought to govern those of others. They advanced their religious arguments with the modesty with which all individual opinions ought to be advanced, but they did not the more give up their conviction that the conclusion, which those arguments were advanced to prove, was true, more especially as it rested on the doctrine of all Christendom, and on the solemn decision of the Church from the earliest ages. The hon. and learned Member for Bath, in his endeavour to cast the  onus probandi 253 "All marriages which have anywhere been contracted within the degrees of consanguinity or
 254 "Maximèverò, si quis, priore uxore demortuâ, ejus sororem uxorem duxerit: hie enim gradus, communi omnium doctorum virorum consensu et judicio, putatur in Levitico prohiberi." "This is a prohibition not only of the marriages mentioned within Leviticus xviii., but also of marriages within the degrees there mentioned; which, though not forbidden in terms, are forbidden by parity of degree, and the plain reason of the precept. And this difference as to the interpretation of the Levitical prohibition, in point of extent, was remarkable among the Jewish doctors, some of whom—namely, the Talmudists—confined it to the letter of the law; others—namely, the Koraites—extended it to all marriages of the same degree with those that are prohibited by name. Which latter opinion, as most agreeable to Scripture and reason, was followed by the primitive Christians, as appears from the apostolical canons, which forbid the marrying of two sisters, and of a brother's or sister's daughter." Reformatio Legum, thus "In these chapters, however, of Leviticus this is carefully to be observed, that they do not by any means contain an explicit mention by name of all the persons with whom union is unlawful. For the Holy Spirit has there brought forward distinctly and expressly those persons from which the like intervals and relative differences of the other degrees may with ease be discovered and inferred. As, for example, a son being forbidden to marry his mother, it is a just consequence that a daughter also cannot be her father's wife. And if
 255 "1. That we are always to understand the same places which are assigned to men to be equally attributable to women; the degrees of proportion and propinquity being the same. 2. That the man and his wife are to be regarded as having between them one and the same flesh; so that whatever may be the degree of consanguinity in which one person stands related to another, he will be related to his wife in the same degree of affinity, which rule is also of the same force and upon the same principle in the converse case." Gibson's Codex "This was the very point in which, presently after the making of the Act—25  Henry 256 "Albeit I be not forbidden by plain words to marry my wife's sister, yet am I forbidden to do so by other words which by exposition are plain enough. For when God commands me I shall not marry my brother's wife, it follows directly by the same that He also forbids me to marry my wife's sister. For between one man and two sisters, and one woman and two brothers is like analogy or proportion." "Chafin, that hath married two sisters, upon his appeal from your Grace and me, hangeth still before the delegates; and, as much as I can perceive, is not likely to take any great hurt at their hands. I would they would decree it were lawful to marry two sisters: so should the world be out of doubt; as now, it is passed away in a mockery." 257 258 259 260 261 The Times The Chicago Tribune "Polygamy! Polygamy! Polygamy! That is the word which you call it; and one would think, from the holy horror with which your editors, preachers, and politicians utter it, that it is a crime of magnitude surpassing all others. My dear friend, I do not doubt many of you think so; but it is all the result of education, nothing else. I assure you I speak from experience; as do thousands of others hereabout, who once thought as you do. But you must know that the Church of Latter-day Saints discards all sectarian dogmas, and comes to the plain simple truths of the Bible; the whole Bible, not a part of it. It looks to the lives of the patriarchs and prophets, the men of 'pure religion and undefiled,' for principles, as well as to those who came after them. It sees no higher or more heavenly state of society than that which existed under the authority and direction of Jehovah anterior to the Christian era. Not that it opposes any doctrine of Christ, or of those authorised to speak for him, for it would leave every one free. No, it gives the highest sanction it can give to every principle elaborated in the New Testament, while it makes the Old and the New entirely harmonise. The doctrine is founded on the Bible, the eternal rock
 262 263
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, the supporters of this measure based their demand for a change of the law on two grounds—first, that there was no prohibition of these marriages in the book of Leviticus; and next that, if there were, it ought not to be maintained. [ Cries of
 MR. WALPOLE  did not think it possible to make such alterations in Committee as would in reality improve this Bill. What was the evil which the Bill proposed to remedy? Its object was to prevent persons domiciled in England going to Scotland, and there contracting marriages in a way which they could not do in England; and the mode by which it was proposed to prevent this was to impose on such persons a penalty of 10 l. l. l. 237 l. l.
 MR. PHINN : I beg the hon. and learned Gentleman's pardon. What I said was, that if there had been any positive prohibition it would have been binding.
 MR. PHINN  said, it appeared to him that the hon. Member for Oxford University had, in his fair and temperate speech, sought to dispose of the question before the House by shifting the onus of proof from one side to the other. The hon. Baronet in fact argued that the existing law was fixed and settled, and that we ought to accept it, unless some good grounds for disturbing it could be shown, rather than call on those who advocated the existing law to defend their position by asserting that no change was necessary. Now, he (Mr. Phinn) thought, that in the former discussion the Attorney General had clearly established that the existing law was not quite so fixed and settled a matter, and that the
 248 249 omne ignotum pro magnifico 250 "Again, he does not permit the same man to marry two sisters, neither at the same time, nor at different periods, even if he have put away the one whom he previously married; for while she is living—whether she be cohabiting with him, or whether she be put away, or if she be living as a widow, or if she be married to another man—still he did not consider it holy for her sister to enter upon the portion of her who had been unfortunate. By this injunction teaching sisters not to violate the requirements of justice towards their relations, nor to make a stepping-stone of the disasters of one so united to themselves by blood, nor to acquiesce in, or to pride themselves in receiving attentions from those who have shown themselves enemies to their relations or to reciprocate any kind offices received from them." 251
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was afraid, considering the result of past attempts to remove the anomalies existing in the marriage laws of the two countries, that Her Majesty's Government would not have much encouragement in any efforts they might make in that direction. No doubt there were parts of the law of Scotland with reference to marriage which were productive of much inconvenience both in
 239
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, whatever might be the difficulties and doubts that surrounded this important subject, this much might at all events be said, that when those who were in favour of the Bill endeavoured to show that the presumptions of the case were in their favour, and insisted on laying the burden of proof on the opponents of the Bill, they made a claim which was unfair and which they had no right to ask the House to entertain. The opponents of the Bill were standing on the ground which had been occupied by the whole of Christendom from the earliest times to a comparatively modern period, and they were entitled to hold that ground till some strong reasons were shown why they should abandon it. And when they were told that the presumption was against them because the law as it now stood was a restriction on natural liberty, his reply was, that that argument would apply to every conceivable case, for we could frame no definition of a law which would not imply restraint against something or other which might be deemed a natural right—and, therefore, the presumption would always be against every law. On the first introduction of restrictions it is for those who introduce them to justify their proposed enactments by sufficient arguments, but, after centuries of prescription, the grounds of the original legislation are to be taken as good until the contrary is proved by those who assail them. He begged to give the most decided negative to the idea, that at any time there had been the slightest hesitation in the law of England on the subject. No doubt Lord Lyndhurst's Act got rid of facilities that existed for the evasion of the law, but at no time had there been any difference between the Ecclesiastical Courts and the common law courts on the point of law itself. These marriages had always been held to be against the law, as much before Lord Lyndhurst's Act, as since. Those who opposed the present Bill, therefore, had a right not to be put on their defence, but to demand that, in a matter wherein the evils of debate are themselves immense, no disturbance should be made, unless the assailants of the actual law were prepared to set up their own case by an overwhelming weight of argument. But, in fact, the arguments used have been chiefly such as have turned aside from the substance of the question to deal only with its outside, have passed by the grave consi-
 242 ad captandum reductio ad absurdum. 243 244 245 246 247
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he begged to ask the hon. Gentleman the Vice-President of the Board of Trade whether any correspondence had taken place concerning the return, duty free, of articles sent to the Exhibition in the United States; and whether he could state what arrangements had been made with the French Government concerning the transmission and return of articles sent to the Exhibition at Paris? The House might be aware that it had been stipulated that all articles sent to the United States' Exhibition should be admitted duty free, and that the cost of their carriage to and from the Exhibition should be defrayed. One of the gentlemen who had sent some articles to that Exhibition wrote to request that they might be returned, and he was informed by his agent in the United States that the association by whom the Exhibition was conducted were unable to fulfil their engagements, the funds being entirely exhausted; that there was no possible chance of the association being able to return foreign articles to the exhibitors; and the agents further stated that they would have taken possession of the particular articles referred to, but that the articles being in bond the Government would not allow them to be withdrawn without payment of duty.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL : Sir, in reply, I have to state that a Bill on the subject of Church discipline, which at the present moment is in a state that involves great reproach, was prepared, under my direction, at the same time with the Testamentary Jurisdiction Bill. When the Testamentary Jurisdiction Bill was introduced, it had not been submitted to the consideration of the Government. It has since been so submitted, and the Government have thought it right that the opinion of the right rev. Prelates, or at least of some of them, should be taken on the Bill before it was introduced to the House. The Bill had been accordingly submitted to some of the bishops, and has not yet been returned by the right rev. Prelates who have it under their consideration. It was prepared upon the principle of treating the United Church of England and Ireland as one Church. In fact, I know of no other leading principle on which it could have been proposed. With regard to the time of its introduction, the House will see from what I have stated that it is impossible for me to say that it can be brought in before the second reading of the Testamentary Jurisdiction Bill. Individually I may express the hope that the Bill, if brought in, may be introduced before the third reading of the Testamentary Jurisdiction Bill—at all events, before that time shall arrive, if it ever shall arrive, the Government will have come to a decision. [ Laughter. 298
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the statement which I made the other evening referred exclusively to malt, and did not extend to sugar. There is an obvious difference between malt and sugar, inasmuch as malt can be made by the distiller on his own premises, whereas sugar can only be brought from bonded warehouses. However, I have not had time to go into the question with regard to sugar, but shall be prepared on a future day to state the intentions of the Government on the subject.
 MR. OWEN STANLEY : I beg, Sir, to ask the hon. Under Secretary for War if the Commander in Chief has ordered any Court of inquiry to examine into the late transactions at Canterbury amongst the officers of the Inniskillen Dragoons, and the causes which led to a hostile meeting, or, as is reported, mock duel, between Cornets Baumgarten and Evans, in which Adjutant Webster and Sergeant Brodie were concerned, and if Sergeant Brodie has again been placed under arrest for any offence?
 SIR JOHN FITZGERALD  said, he did not see how any amalgamation could be accomplished between the Indian army and the European army. The expense of removing an army from India to the Crimea would be enormous. To induce the sepoy to leave India, he must have doubly pay and double batta. But he was perfectly certain that the sepoys never would be able to endure the march and the service that would be required of them. Under all the circumstances, he saw no possible benefit likely to arise from the appointment of a Committee, and he should therefore oppose the Motion.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, the Motion divided itself into two distinct parts; first, as to how many troops could be spared from India to go to the Crimea. That was a question for the Executive Government to decide. It was a question of policy to be considered by the Government, and not one to be sumitted to a Committee of the House of Commons. No doubt, if the East India Company said they could spare 20,000 troops from India for the purpose of prosecuting the war in the Crimea, it would be the duty of Her Majesty's Government to avail themselves of their services. The second proposition of the hon. and learned Gentleman was to amalgamate the Indian army with the Royal army, but that was a proposition which had always been strenuously op-
 323 324
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, that as the office over which he had the honour to preside had been so pointedly alluded to by his hon. and learned Friend who had brought forward the Motion, and by others, as if it were entirely responsible for a decision on the combination of the Indian army and the Queen's army, he trusted, although perhaps he might think that the War Department was the more responsible of the two, that the House would indulge him while he addressed a few observations to the House upon the Motion of his hon. and learned Friend. He was not urged thereto on account of any great favour with which the Motion had been received by the House; indeed, his hon. and learned Friend seemed in his speech to shrink somewhat from his own proposition; and the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster (Sir De Lacy Evans), who had seconded it, stated that he did not look to the "result" of the Committee, and that he only wished to show that he was still
 343 344 prestige 345 346 "To blend, indeed, as has sometimes been recommended, into one indiscriminate mass the general army of the Crown and the local force of India would be the inevitable ruin of the empire. I have no doubt of it. The military patronage of the Crown, already so great, would then exceed all bounds; we should lose the inestimable advantages of local education, knowledge, and habits, so necessary for the command of native troops; and the unjust partialities, preferences, and supercessions, to which the distant service would infallibly be exposed, must soon break down its military character; must, too, probably renew—I shudder to pronounce it—the criminal scenes, which we have so lately witnessed, of military and public rebellion." 347 Gazette 348 "My Lord,—I have the honour to transmit to you the draught of a memorandum the object of which is to give to the officers of the East India Company's army, in all parts of Her Majesty's dominions, the same rank and precedence as that to which their respective commissions at present entitle them in the East Indies. If you approve the memorandum, I request that you will take an early opportunity of submitting it to the Queen; and that, in the event of Her Majesty being graciously pleased to signify her acquiescence, you will cause it to be notified in the  London Gazette. 349 350 351 352 "Some say that our empire in India rests on opinion, others on main force. It, in fact, depends on both. We could not keep the country by opinion if we had not considerable force; and no force that we could pay would be sufficient if it were not aided by the opinion of our invincibility. Our force does not operate so much by its actual strength as by the impression it produces, and that impression is the opinion by which we hold India."
 MR. C. BRUCE  said, he objected to proceeding with a measure of such great interest and importance at that late hour (a quarter to eleven o'clock). Two hon. Gentlemen had occupied the attention of the House for eight hours in discussing the Bill of the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington), but the Bill of his right hon. and learned Friend (the Lord Advocate) had been as yet scarcely discussed at all. Under these circumstances he would move the adjournment of the debate.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, it was most desirable that the Bill of his right hon. and learned Friend (the Lord Advocate) should be proceeded with as early as possible. The Government had been frequently taunted with putting off important measures, and now they were resisted when they proposed to proceed with one in which great interest was felt. He could not consent to the adjournment of the debate, and he hoped the House would feel that it was
 360
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he should support the Motion for adjournment, believing that the Bill deserved to be more calmly and fully considered than would be the case if it were proceeded with at that late hour.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he thought it would be trifling with the question to proceed with it at that hour. He begged hon. Members to contrast the course taken by the Government with respect to a Bill concerning the whole people of Scotland with that which they had pursued with respect to one merely affecting the local management of the metropolis. He must complain that the Scotch Members were from night to night kept in uncertainty about the time the Bill was to be discussed.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he hoped the noble Lord would reconsider his decision, as there were several hon. Members who wished to express their opinions on this subject, as well as the hon. Member for Elginshire (Mr. C. Bruce), who had intimated his intention to speak at considerable lenghth. He (Mr. Disraeli) thought it would he very inconvenient to have an adjourned debate on the question of going into Committee; and he hoped, therefore, that the noble Lord would consent to the postponement of this Bill, and would proceed with the other business upon the paper.
 LORD ELCHO  said, that he felt there was the greatest desire on the part of the people of Scotland that this Bill would be proceeded with without delay. The principle of the Bill had been fully discussed on the second reading, and he, therefore, regarded the tactics of the hon. Gentlemen opposite, as directed to postpone, and eventually defeat a measure on which they had already sustained a defeat in a fair standup fight. In deference to the real feeling of the people of Scotland on this question, he hoped the noble Lord at the head of the Government would not consent to the adjournment of the debate.
 THE EARL OF MARCH  said, he could not allow the noble Lord who had just spoken to assume to himself to represent the feelings of the people of Scotland, which he believed were hostile to the present measure. This Bill was one of vital importance to the people of Scotland, and it was, therefore, the duty of hon. Members from that part of the country to secure its
 361
 MR. E. ELLICE  said, he trusted that the noble Lord at the head of the Government would not consent to the postponement of the debate. There was now a much fuller attendance to discuss the Bill than (from the dryness of the subject to English Members) there was likely to be if the debate was brought forward at an earlier hour in the evening. The opinion of the people of Scotland on this question was sufficiently shown by the fact that there was a majority of three to one of the Scotch Members of that House in favour of the Bill of the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, he hoped that his hon. Friend (Mr. C. Bruce) would press his Motion for adjournment, as there had been an understanding that the debate on this Bill should not come on after half-past ten o'clock in the evening. Such understandings between the leaders of parties should be kept even if they were made in the lobby.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he must deny that there had been any such understanding. So far was that from being the case, that he positively refused to agree to such an arrangement.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, at all events it was his impression, and that of those who were with him, that there was such an understanding. He could not, however, rest his case on such a trivial ground. It was trifling with the people of Scotland to bring forward a debate of so much importance at an hour of the evening when it was impossible that it could be fully and adequately discussed. So far from the opinion of the people of Scotland being in favour of this measure, it was clear from the petitions that it was directly the reverse; for while the petitions in favour of the Bill were signed by only 1,400 persons, those against it received the signatures of 20,000 persons. Believing that it was impossible to finish the discussion that night, and that the debate must, therefore, be adjourned, he should certainly oppose their going on any further at that time.
 MR. V. SCULLY  said, that Irish Members were accused of obstructing the progress of public business if they objected to proceed with any Irish Bill, however important, at one o'clock in the morning. They were never able to bring on their
 362
 MR. STIRLING  said, that, even if injustice had been done to the sister island, he thought there was no reason for committing an act of injustice with regard to the people of Scotland. The petitions presented from Scotland showed that there was this year, as compared with last, a great reaction against the Bill. To show the change of feeling that had taken place, it would only be necessary to compare the number of petitions presented this year with those presented last year in its favour. Last year there were for the Bill 651 petitions, signed by 61,476 persons; against the Bill, 753 petitions, signed by 40,635 persons; for alterations and amendments, 182 petitions, signed by 20,967 persons. During the present year there have been only thirty-four petitions for the Bill, signed by 1,412 persons; against it, 330 petitions, signed by 24,183 persons; while for alteration and amendment there have been 309 petitions, signed by 16,873 persons, showing the immense change of public opinion in Scotland which had taken place since last year. Under these circumstances, he felt himself fully justified in protesting against the House proceeding with it at that hour in the evening.
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE : Sir, I will yield to the expressed feeling of the House, and proceed—When the House thought fit, after a discussion of some three hours, which certainly, as far as its duration was concerned, bore no very just proportion to the importance of the subject involved in it, to reverse, in regard to the second reading of this Bill, the decision to which it came last year, it did appear to me that, as there were several Members who had desired to express, but had been prevented from expressing, their opinions upon it, there would be nothing unreasonable in an endeavour to afford them that opportunity by meeting the Motion now before the House with an amendment, that the House should go into Committee on this Bill this
 363 364 "How happy could we be with either, If only we both might enjoy." 365 "The flood Of sacred truth may enter, till it brood O'er the wide realm, as o'er the Egyptian plain The all-sustaining note." 366 367 delenda est. "Another and very important point in this Bill is, that in no case will it interfere with existing schools or existing interests. We must not, in our wish for improvement or extension, lose sigh of the progress education has already made in this country. On that point I have to state distinctly that my proposal will interfere with no existing
 368 "Parochial schools connected with the Established Church, 2,035. Free Church, 768; United Presbyterian, 54; Episcopal, 68; Roman Catholic, 28; Church of England, 1; Original Secession, 1; Reformed Presbyterian, 1; Congregational, 1; Baptist, 2—In all, 924." 369 "Established Church, 151,590. Free Church, 67,000; other denominations, 27,586—Amount to 94,686. Non-denominations, 126,991." 370 371 372 "I am quite sure that the spirit of proselytism, which some persons seem so greatly to dread, would no more exist in a good and sensible clergyman than in a good and sensible layman. The master must be a member of some church, and if he be a sincere member of it, and fitted to give religious instruction at all, he must be anxious to Inculcate its tenets—but if he be a man of judgment and honesty, and of a truly Catholic spirit, he will find it a more sacred duty not to abuse the confidence of those parents of different persuasions who may have entrusted their children to his care, and will think that the true spirit of a Christian is not exactly the spirit of proselytism." "It only remains to notice that a considerable proportion of those attending at several of the schools are of the Roman Catholic Church, and it is proper to state that the schools are always open to scholars of this class as freely, and on the
 373 374 375 376 377 l. l. l. l. s. d. l. s. d. s. d. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. l. l. 378 Quis custodiet ipsos custodies 379
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, at that late hour (it being half-past twelve o'clock), he would not oppose the Motion, as there seemed no likelihood of ending the discussion that night.
 MR. COWAN  said, he hoped the Government would allow the debate to be continued on Monday next, which was agreed to.
 MR. LOWE  said, he was very sorry to be obliged to trouble the House at that late hour with two or three observations, but the great importance of the question, and the novelty, as well as the very undesirable nature of the course about to be adopted, must be his excuse for doing so. The noble Lord gave notice of a Bill to enable Her Majesty to assent to an Act of the Legislative Council of Victoria as that Act had been amended. This was a very extraordinary Motion. He would say nothing now of the Bill, which could be discussed
 380 381 382 ultra vires.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he did not think that either of the courses proposed by the hon. Gentleman would be preferable to that which the Government desired to adopt. The hon. Gentleman was mistaken in supposing that it was proposed to insert in this Bill provisions which the Legislature of Victoria had not sanctioned, but the hon. Gentleman was quite correct in stating that the enactments of the Legislature of Victoria were  ultra vires 383 384
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he thought the difficulties pointed out by the hon. Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe) had not been answered by the noble lord. The passing of a Bill to enable Her Majesty to assent to a portion and not the whole of the Bill of the Colonial Legislature was a course which, in his opinion, was open to very grave doubt. As he understood the law, a Bill sent to that House from the colonies must be assented to in its entirety, and not partially. He understood a part of the Bill was not to be assented to, as it was a matter which the Colonial Legislature had no power to frame a Bill upon. He thought, therefore, the noble lord ought not to press the Bill without further consideration. When the Bill came from the Colonial Legislature it was an entire thing; and he did not think it was competent upon principle, or, if competent, he considered it would be extremely inconvenient, that the noble lord should introduce a Bill to enable the Crown to assent to the valid part of the Colonial Bill, and to reject the other.
 MR. LOWE  said, it was not his intention to oppose the introduction of the Bill.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he was quite opposed to the introduction of the Bill, as it was not the Bill of the Colonial Legislature, but a new Bill altogether.
 MR. J. BALL  said, the Bill which the noble lord was about to introduce did not alter any portion of the Bill which had been passed by the Colonial Legislature. It was simply proposed that certain portions of the Colonial Bill should be omitted.
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  said, that the project now before the House had been agitated since the days of Pitt, but he doubted whether this was exactly the time to consider the matter, because it was only two years ago that great changes were made in the Government of India which he believed would be followed by salutary results. Opinion in India was fermenting between the old and new state and it would be far from wise, he considered, to interfere with changes which were already working well. He did not think any dispassionate person could have followed minutely the improvements in the three Presidencies and not have recognized a great change in policy as compared with
 356 357
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that the Board of Trade had never undertaken any responsibility with respect to the goods sent to the Exhibition at New York; they had nothing to do with the sending of those
 294 The Times l.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON : I beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary for Ireland if he is prepared to state, on the part of the Government, what course they intend to pursue with regard to this Bill? I trust he is ready to put on the paper the exact terms of the Amendments which he proposed the other evening.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he wished to ask the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny what course he intended to pursue further as regarded the Tenants' Compensation Bill for Ireland; and also whether he had not surrendered the conduct of the Bill to the Government?
 MR. LAYARD : Sir, before proceeding with the Orders of the Day, I wish to say a word or two in order that there may be a clear understanding with regard to my Motion. I think the noble Lord at the head of the Government misunderstood my intentions when he stated that I was about to force my Motion upon the House on Monday next. I had certainly no such intention. When I requested the noble Lord to give me a night, he declined, and said I must find one for myself, and I then intimated that I would bring my Motion forward on going into Committee of Supply. I understand that on Monday night there will be an important Motion in another place, and perhaps it would be for the convenience of the House if my Motion were postponed till a later day. I think, therefore, that I had better avail myself of the kind permission given to me by the noble Lord the other night, and find a day for myself.
 MR. BUTLER  said, he begged to ask the right hon. Baronet the Chief Commissioner of Works whether it was intended to curtail the area of the Victoria Park by letting portions of the land for building purposes; and whether there was yet time
 295
 MR. MOODY  asked if he was to understand that the vessel had sailed?
 MR. MOODY : Then it must have been within these twenty-four hours.
 MR. MOODY  said, he begged to ask the hon. Under Secretary for War the cause of the detention of the  Candia Candia 299 Candia
 MR. HORSMAN : I will immediately prepare the Amendments which I propose to make in the Bill, in accordance with the views I stated the other evening on the part of the Government, and as soon as they are ready will place them on the Votes of the House. I shall also endeavour to fix as early a day as possible for going into Committee on the Bill.
 MR. FRENCH  said, he begged to ask the First Lord of the Treasury if he had any objection to inform the House who the persons are to whom Lord Dundonald's plans for the destruction of the Russian fortresses have been submitted by Her Majesty's Government?
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I have to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government a question which arises from the papers
 301
 MR. BRIGHT : Am I to understand from the noble Lord that the matter is in that condition that any Motion on the subject of the negotiations and the fullest discussion in this House upon them would not be regarded by the Government as prejudicial to the public interests? I do not want to take the responsibility of injuring the public interests by originating a premature discussion, and therefore I am anxious to ascertain from the noble Lord if we are perfectly free to express our opinions on this subject at length?
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he deprecated all rash conclusions, and he could not avoid expressing an opinion that that House was too prone to treat with levity questions of great importance. But he warned them that a deep sentiment prevailed throughout the whole British empire on the questions that now occupied their minds, and that they would be called to a solemn account for what they did, not only with respect to the question of the war in the Crimea, but also in regard to such questions as that which had been brought forward that night by a Gentleman who had highly distinguished himself as a Judge in India. Although the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had expressed himself with very considerable ability, yet let not the House be led away by his fallacies, but let them judge of the matters before them according to the dictates of common sense and sound reason. An immense responsibility devolved upon them in managing the affairs of India and the East, and he therefore hoped that the House would not that night divide against the question, but would give it further I consideration. He looked upon this as the commencement of a series of debates on questions of the most vital importance to the country, and he would take this opportunity of expressing a hope that his hon. Friend the Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Layard) would not bring forward his motion on Monday next, but would wait the result of the motion of Lord Ellen-borough
 358
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he did not expect all the benefits which hon. Members anticipated from the change proposed, while he thought there were constitutional objections to bringing so vast a military power under the control of the Queen, without any of those safeguards which the constitution considered necessary. He should be glad to revise the ill-considered measure passed two years ago for the better government of India, but he did not suppose that any nation could govern another country if the military power was taken from its control. It was preposterous to say that the Government of India should be left in its present hands, or that the people of India could look up to the present Government with respect if they were to be deprived of their military power. The history of India teemed with instances of the danger of weakening the hands of the civil Government, and of the mutinies which had broken out when men were placed over the army in whom the sepoys were not accustomed to confide and when disputes took place between the Governor and the Commander in Chief He could not vote for this Motion, but he was ready to join in any measure for inquiring into the government of India.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether the Irish Testamentary Jurisdiction Bill would be introduced before the day fixed for the second reading of the English Testamentary Bill?
 MR. MALINS  said, he wished to know if any Member of the Government could state on what day it was their fixed intention to bring on the adjourned debate upon the Testamentary Jurisdiction Bill?
 MR. MALINS  said, that many persons were remaining in town at great expense and inconvenience, in order to be present at the adjourned debate; and he therefore hoped that the Government would give notice of their intention with respect to this measure as soon as possible.
 MR. HANKEY : Sir, I beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether, on the addition of 2 d.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE : I beg leave to state, Sir, that it is my intention thankfully to accept the offer of the Government to take charge of the Tenants' Compensation Bill. With respect to the question whether I accept that offer upon the terms which the Government have proposed, I beg to say that I do not exactly know at present what those terms are. I understood the Government to have assented generally to the principle of the Bill, and no more. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland announced that he did intend to propose to the House certain alterations of the Bill in Committee. I reserve to myself, as an independent Member of Parliament, the right to deal with the alterations proposed by the Government when I see them printed.
 MR. OTWAY  said, the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control had remarked that the hon. and learned Gentleman who brought forward the Motion for a Select Committee was only actuated by a desire for change; but he could not understand that at a time like the present, any hon. Gentleman could move a Resolution with such a motive. It had been urged that there would be danger in amalgamating the two armies, but this consideration had little weight with him, for sooner or later the amalgamation must take place. It was inevitable. Now, when he considered the character of the officers in the Indian service he could not help thinking that they were
 353 354 355
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he was not quite sure that the hon. and learned Gentleman had introduced such an argument judiciously; but, after all, it was a mere argument. There was one part of the statement of the hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Hogg) with which he most cordially concurred, and that was as to the injustice done to eminent and distinguished officers of the East Indian army with regard to
 339 statu quo 340 341 342
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, as he understood the object of his hon. and learned Friend (Sir E. Perry) in proposing the appointment of a Committee, was to carry out the very object which he had himself more than once advocated, he had no option but to support the Motion, without, however, binding himself to any proceeding which such a Committee might think proper to adopt beyond that of giving power to the Government to employ the officers of the Indian army in Europe, as they were employed in India. He did not think the actual terms of the Motion justified some of the arguments which had been advanced by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. The hon. Gentleman supposed that a question was to be submitted to a Select Committee, as to the propriety of sending an expedition to the Persian Gulf——
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  seconded the Motion.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL : An officer
 300
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL : The vessel has sailed.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL : Yes.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, the detention of this vessel was caused by an opinion expressed by the officers at Woolwich, not favourable to its safety, or to its being rightly fitted up as a horse transport. The members of the Transport Board, however, inspected the vessel very carefully, and were fully satisfied that apprehensions from that cause were entirely groundless. Consequently, the vessel proceeded to sea, and the detention did not exceed four or five days. No demurrage was paid, the vessel being a hired one.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that it was quite impossible. The day when this subject would come on must depend upon the pressure of public business. It would be brought on on the first day on which it could be done without interfering with more urgent business.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the second reading of the English Testamentary Jurisdiction Bill had already been debated at considerable length a fortnight ago, and the adjourned debate would be resumed as soon as a day could be found not required for more urgent business. The Irish Bill would not be introduced until the House had come to a decision on the second reading of the English Bill, but it would be brought in before they went into Committee upon the measure now before them.
 SIR J. HOGG  said, that the hon. and learned Member (Sir E. Perry) had used that argument in his speech.
 SIR JAMES HOGG  said, he had listened with great attention to the suggestions made by his hon. and learned Friend (Sir E. Perry) in introducing the Motion, and, having heard his hon. and learned Friend's panegyric upon the Indian army and its efficiency in every department, he had certainly been somewhat surprised to find that his hon. and learned Friend, knowing the authority under which that army served, had arrived at the conclusion that it ought now to be transferred from the authority by which it had been organised, and under which it had gained its present state of efficiency. The hon. and learned Gentleman spoke of some possible diversion that might be made by the Indian army in the present war, and then proposed that a Committee of the House of Commons should sit upon the question, and arrogate to themselves the functions of the Government both as to the policy of the war and the mode in which it was to be conducted. [Sir ERSKINE PERRY: "No, no!"] The hon. and learned Gentleman had certainly spoken of expeditions to the Persian Gulf, to the Crimea, and to the valley of the Euphrates, mentioning them only as several suggestions for the consideration of the Committee. Surely, to call upon a Committee to discuss such subjects would be to transfer to them the functions of the Government. The Motion of his hon. and learned Friend as it stood on the paper was this—to consider and inquire, in the first place, how the army in India might be made most available for the present war; and certainly it was a
 325 326 327 "A hostile monarch may promise mountains of gold to our sepoys, on condition that they will
 328 "The people of India will bear a great deal, so long as they are used to it. They are very intolerant of change. They do not understand it. They are timid and suspicious. Benevolence and wisdom may go hand in hand in our measures, but the people are not easily persuaded that what we are doing is for their good." 329 330 "The separation of the civil government from the military would probably not answer in any country, but least of all in India. The great problem there has always been to maintain the subordination of the military power to the civil, and to prevent clashing between the governors and commanders in chief. In this we have not always been successful, even when both drew their authority from the same source." 331 "In that case, if the pride of officers was for a moment flattered by a more immediate connection with the King, that feeling would probably be altered when they discovered that, from a separate service, which had a reputation and pretension of its own, and was the sole object of attention to the military department of its Government, they even sank into an inferior branch of another army, and were scarcely known to the Commander in Chief." 332 "That we felt it our inclination, as well as our duty, to treat the Court of Directors with every respect; that our situation was unprecedented, as was the cause which had principally induced it. In all other cases, as public servants, we could look with confidence towards them alone as the channel of redress; but in the present instance, where we had every reason to believe a change of masters was intended without deigning to consult us, we conceived that our being officers did not deprive us of the liberty enjoyed by every other description of British subjects, namely, the asserting, by every legal means, our natural rights as men. We were not slaves, to be transferred at the will or caprice of a master. No Power had a right to convey its armies to another. That the officers in India had contracted to serve the Company; if they were to be transferred to the King, it must be with their own consent, and not on such terms as they chose to stipulate." "It is with the sincerest gratification that we are at length able to congratulate you on the final adjustment and transmission of the new military arrangement. … Our brother officers will, we trust, need no assurance from us, that we have not been deficient in zeal and exertion to obtain for them the solid advantages of rank, respectability, and ultimate independence, at the price of as few pecuniary sacrifices as possible. They will recollect that at the opening of the negotiation the subject was novel and the result hazardous; that a system had been formed and supported by the highest authority and the most overbearing influence, which threatened the subversion, root and branch, of those establishments to which, from long habit and from conviction of their peculiar adaptation to our situation, we are firmly attached. We have happily succeeded in obtaining an arrangement constituted in most parts on the principles which our constituents have themselves recommended. The reform has been temperate and cautious, and promises in
 333 "A period of nearly thirty-seven years has now passed over since the Bengal, and, indeed, the whole of the Indian Artillery, were informed that Lord Cornwallis had proposed to the home authorities to 'incorporate them with the Royal Artillery, and to relieve them regularly from Woolwich.' I have a lively, and, I may say, a painful, recollection of the sensation produced by this promulgation. The major part of the regiment was then at Dum-Dum, at their annual practice. A meeting was held upon the occasion, where the proposition was looked upon with absolute
 334 335 336 337 338
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I beg, Sir, to ask the hon. and learned Solicitor General for England whether the Government are prepared to introduce a Church Discipline Bill before the second reading of the English Testamentary Bill; and whether the Church Discipline Bill will deal with the United Church of England and Ireland as one Church; and also whether the Government will introduces Matrimonial and Divorce Bill before the second reading of the English Testamentary Bill?
 SIR ERSKINE PERRY : * 303 304 305 306 307 
 
 Strength and charge of the British Army (including Company's troops) in time of peace, compared with strength and charge of French Army. 
 Horses. European Officers. Men of all ranks. Charge. 
 Queen's Army, exclusive of troops in India (1847) 6,400 4,549 107,794 £9,222,943 
 Indian Army maintained by Company (1851) 30,944 7,556 289,529 £11,373,830 
 Militia, thirty-five battalions … 105 28,000 
 Police Corps, militarily organised … 35 24,015 
 Contingents of Native Princes … 86 36,311 
 Total British Army 37,344 12,331 485,649 £20,596,773 
 French Army (1852), (Budget de Guerre) 84,935 19,604 377,130 £12,340,162 "He came now to a point of the utmost delicacy and difficulty; but which notwithstanding would be benefited by discussion in Parliament, before which discussion delicacy and difficulty had often vanished. The army in India rested too much on the footing of profit without reference to honours at home. An army more full than the army in India of honour, loyalty and valour, he had never seen; and he could not have conceived that it would under any authority have become otherwise. But it did happen somehow or other that the officers of the army in India were not held forward to public view as much as other officers in other parts of the world; and they felt that honour and distinctions were conferred for services not more meritorious or important than their own, which were denied to them." "He had had great opportunities of trying them (the Indian army) under great difficulties and privations, at a distance from their homes and families, and yet their zeal and energy never abated. In the wars of Mysore and Egypt the native troops did not hesitate to embark in ships, although that was contrary to their usages and prejudices; and the reason that they so cordially consented to embark was from seeing there was no compulsion." 308 "My opinion of the army," he said before the House of Commons' Committee in 1852, "generally is, that it is a very fine army. The Indian artillery I really think is the most efficient artillery in the world. Its practice is admirable; I have seen a good deal of it. The Royal artillery may be superior as a scientific corps; but as a practical corps in the field, in crossing mountains, jungles, rivers, and in everything that artillery can be called upon to do in the field, I never saw anything better than the Indian artillery." "I think the Indian army is nearly perfect. There cannot be an army more loyal, better disposed, or more ready to do their duty. It is quite impossible to have a more brilliant set of officers or a finer body of men than the artillery of Bengal. I must say of the natives, as well as the Europeans, that a more devoted set of men cannot be found." "I do not conceive that there is a more effective army, certainly not in India, and I think I may say not anywhere than the Bombay army; they will go anywhere, they never make an object-
 309 "It was my fortune to serve during the whole almost of the Peninsular war, and I have served through several campaigns in India, but in the Punjab campaign I do not think that at any one period there was a wounded man without his dooly (litter), nor wanting any comfort it was possible to give him." "During the Maratta campaign, the Sutlej campaign, and the Punjab campaign, the army under my command was never one day without its regular provisions." 310 corps d'armée 311 312 The Gazette 313 314 Army List "24, Maida Hill West, 12th April, 1855. "My dear Sir Erskine, "I read with great interest your notice of Motion in the House of Commons for the amalgamation
 315 "It is quite true that the natives of India have not much love for their country, but they love their Sovereign not minding who he is. Everybody knows how the Seikh troops fought on the Sutledge: it is certain that if it was not for the treachery of their Sirdars, they were quite capable of inarching to Delhi and Benares right over the Indian troops. Why were these men so courageous? four-fifths of them were natives of Hindoostan, the same class of men who fill the ranks of native troops in British India. Because they were fighting for their Sovereign; and when that Sovereign was no more, they dispersed and desisted, and so the Punjab was pacified. "The change will give a new era to the native troops; they will consider themselves superior to those serving the native Potentates, and it is fact that the natives of India look to the Queen's troops far superior to their own; they are called  Padeshahee Fowj Beparee ke Fowj "I enclose for your perusal a memorandum of few facts which came to my knowledge while in India, and "I remain, my dear Sir Erskine, "Yours very sincerely, "M. A. ACKBAR, "Sir T. Erskine Perry, Knt., M.P., &c." 316 elites "I am one of those who consider the amalgamation of the two armies as desirable, and for the advantage of both services. There of course must exist many obstacles to such a measure; but I cannot see any which might not be got over. I conceive the days of the purchase system in the Queen's army are numbered, therefore, without discussing the expediency of purchase being done away with, we shall find, by such a measure, the principal obstacle to the union of the two armies removed. I do not anticipate any evil from officers of the Royal army exchanging and being put into native regiments, or  vice versâ. 317 "His Majesty is desirous of knowing your opinion on the best mode of new modelling the army in India, with a view to give safety and permanence to our Indian empire, and to prevent the continuance or revival of those discontents and jealousies which have so often manifested themselves between the King's and Company's troops, as well as between the Company's troops belonging to the different presidencies." "I do not conceive it possible that any system can be devised which would have a permanent and useful effect for the satisfaction of both services and for the public good, unless as a preliminary
 318 "It must, however, at the same time be clearly understood that all His Majesty's troops serving in India are to be perfectly subordinate to the Company's Government in that country, and to obey all orders they may receive either directly from those Governments or through them from the Court of Directors." 319 320 coup de grace 321 322
 SIR ERSKINE PERRY  said, he fully agreed with the last speaker, in thinking that the Government had not treated the question he had submitted to the House with that gravity which it deserved. The right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control, seemed to think that he (Sir E. Perry) had brought this motion forward merely for the purpose of provoking a discussion. He could assure the right hon. Gentleman that he was far too practical a man to waste the time of the House in endeavouring merely to get up a discussion without having any practical object in view. He had endeavoured to show the great advantage that would result from having an additional force brought from India into the Crimea, that force consisting of the Company's troops as well as those of Her Majesty. Ho believed that a force of 25,000 additional men in the Crimea would be most useful at the present conjuncture. How had his argument been met by the Government? First, it was asserted that the Committee for which he asked was unnecessary, because the Government already had the power by their own orders of sending such a force into the field. He would venture to tell the right hon. Gentleman that course was not so easy of performance as he supposed. He had high military authority for saying that there were many military difficulties in the way of any such orders being executed, as he appeared to consider would be sufficient. Whenever the Company's troops and Her Majesty's troops co-operated out of the Indian dominions, the Company's officers would always be inferior, and that would be an obstacle to the combination of the two services. The hon. Baronet (Sir J. Hogg), having convinced himself, had also endeavoured to convince the House, that the amalgamation of the two services was impracticable. But was he not aware that, two years and a half ago, the question was seriously discussed whether the Government of India should not at once be transferred to the Crown? Had that transfer taken place then, as a matter of necessity, the two services must have been amalgamated. The Committee for which he (Sir E. Perry) had moved had been objected to as not being Parliamentary; but he had shown that in the year 1833, the President of the Board of Control
 359
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that when a park was constructed in the metropolis the strip of land that surrounded it became very valuable for building purposes, and, instead of allowing that increased value to be acquired by the owners of the adjoining property, the Government had generally, when a new park was formed, purchased more land than was required for the area of the proposed park. This course had been pursued in the case of the Regent's Park, Battersea Park, and Victoria Park. The Act 14 & 15  Vict.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I have no objection to state that the invention in question has been referred to several eminent scientific men, amongst whom are Professors Faraday, Playfair, and Graham. But I would submit to the House whether there can be any advantage attained by going into the discussion of the question at this time, whether the invention in question is adopted or not?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I understand, Sir, that the hon. Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Layard) proposes to bring on the Resolutions of which he has given notice upon going into Committee of Supply on Monday. I should be very sorry to deprive the House of the opportunity of discussing those Resolutions as a substantive Motion, and therefore I am quite willing to postpone the Orders of the Day on Monday, so as to enable the hon. Gentleman to propose his Resolutions as a substantive Motion, providing that other hon. Members who have notices standing for Monday will also give way to the hon. Member for Aylesbury. Monday is not a
 296
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that it did not appear to him that there was any chance of the adjourned debate on the Testamentary Jurisdiction Bill coming on to-morrow.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : If my own opinion is asked, I do not think that public advantage would arise—on the contrary I would say public inconvenience would result—from the Government being compelled, in the present state of things, to enter into a detailed discussion of what was past—of proposals made and proposals rejected—of proposals which might have been made and proposals which might have been rejected—in short, entering into a wide field of discussion with respect to the relations of the different Powers which have been concerned in these negotiations. Such is my own opinion; but, of course, I have no right to control the conduct of others.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : There has been, Sir, no formal or written proposal made by the Austrian Government since the period to which the hon. Gentleman alludes. There have been verbal communications passed between the Austrian Government and the Governments of England and France, and also between the French Government and the English Government; but I am sure the hon. Member and the House will feel that, considering the state of the relations between the three Governments, it would not be prudent to enter into detailed explanations in regard to those communications. With respect to the question whether the negotiations have been entirely broken off, I can only repeat the answer which I gave upon a former occasion—namely, that the elements of a conference permanently exist at Vienna—that the representatives of England, of France, of Turkey, of Austria, and of Russia reside at Vienna; and therefore, if at any time any proposition were made, either by Russia directly, or by Austria on behalf of Russia, which appeared to afford any prospect of a satisfactory settlement of the question at issue,
 302
 MR. EWART  wished to ask the Clerk of the Ordnance, what measures had been adopted by the Board of Ordnance for investigating and deciding on mechanical and other inventions laid before them for the more vigorous prosecution of the war, and what has, so far, been the working of such measures?
 COLONEL NORTH  said, it appeared from the report of Major Simmons, that the vessel was not provided with a fire-engine, pumps, or fire-annihilators, and had only eighteen buckets on board; and he did not think that those officials whose duty it was to carry into execution the orders of the First Lord of the Admiralty had performed their duty in a satisfactory manner. He wished to know if they had made a report on that point, and also on the manner in which the ship was loaded? It was reported that the circumstance was brought under the notice of Mr. Green at the time, but that he said he could not afford to have the cargo moved.
 MR. BENTINCK  could not but regard, among the various objections to this Bill, the manner in which it had originated.
 450
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was substantially identical with a clause which had been moved by his hon. Friend the Member for Pontefract
 451 452
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the present Bill made on alteration with respect to the limit of superficial inches which had hitherto been permitted to be conveyed in the first instance for 1 d.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was in preparation.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was aware of the wish of the trade, and had promised to consider it, but could not pledge himself.
 CAPTAIN JONES  said, that much injustice would be done to the distiller in Ireland if the same amount of drawback were not allowed upon spirits already distilled from malt and now in bond, as Was proposed to be allowed upon spirits hereafter distilled. He proposed, therefore, to insert in Schedule B the words "or bonded under the Exportation Act of the 17th and 18th  Vict.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  suggested that if the hon. and gallant Member would withdraw his amendment for the present he would consider it in the interval before the third reading of the Bill.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the scale had been established in accordance with what had appeared to him to be the express desire of the House upon the second reading of the Bill. He still adhered to the opinion which he had then expressed, that it would have been better for the House not to predetermine the decision of the House before the period at which the proposed scale of duties would come into operation should have arrived. In framing the prospective scale of duties, he had endeavoured to bring back the duties to the amount at which they stood before they were increased in consequence of the war. The question before the House depended upon a small consideration. One class of sugar upon which the duty had been 10 s. s. d s. d. s.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the House might recollect that he stated, on a former occasion, that he should submit to their consideration a proposal for extending the present
 456 l. l.; l. l. l. 457 l. l. l. l.
 MR. LOCKE KING  moved the following Resolutions:—
 "That it is the opinion of this House that a new, complete, and systematic edition of the Sta-
 458 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the best mode of making a new, complete, and systematic edition of the statutes now in force, omitting all such enactments as are repealed, obsolete, or expired."
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  observed that, although the Royal Commission for consolidating the statutes did not at first get into the right track, yet they had done so now, and he believed that great benefit would be derived from their labours. Under these circumstances he thought it would be idle for the House to enter upon the task which the hon. Member for Surrey wished them to assume.
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, that he would omit from the Motion the words, "ought to be undertaken on the authority of this House;" but he thought the House ought
 464
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, he was glad to find that the First Lord of the Admiralty was in a position to state that the proper measures had been taken to test the condition of the ship, and was able to deny the statement, so discreditable to the authorities, which had been made. He (Admiral Walcott) did not, however, consider the explanation of the right hon. Baronet quite satisfactory, for he doubted whether the improper stowage of the iron was sufficient to account for the dangerous state of the vessel when at sea, a state so
 440
 LORD HOTHAM  said, it would be in the recollection of those hon. Members who saw day by day the accounts of what was supposed to pass in the Sebastopol Committee-room, that in the course of his examination, the Duke of Newcastle produced a dispatch written by himself to Lord Raglan, containing the orders of the Government with respect to the expedition to the Crimea and the siege of Sebastopol. The production of that despatch necessarily created a desire to see the answer returned by Lord Raglan to it. The Committee, however, did not call for the production of that reply, but simply instructed their Chairman to communicate with the Government as to the propriety of its being produced. He presumed the Chairman of the Committee (Mr. Roebuck) had had that communication with the Government, and that the result was the notice which stood on the paper for that evening. If the intention of the Government was to
 404
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  observed, that any work which consolidated the statutes might, as a literary work, be very useful to lawyers and to the country generally, and might be undertaken by any lawyer; but as the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had pointed out, it would be a work of no authority, and if questions came before the Judges they could take no notice of such a compilation, but would decide upon the statutes as they existed; neither could the authority of the House of Commons give any weight to the omission in such work of particular statutes. But there was another task which the Resolution before the House contemplated—
 463
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  had heard with great regret the announcement of the right hon. Gentleman. He could see no reason why the same rule should not be followed in the case of cheques drawn within sixteen miles of London, as in those drawn beyond that distance. Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman would afford some explanation of the reasons for this exceptional legislation.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  seconded the Motion.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, on Friday night a Secretary of State, on a similar motion to that which is now in your hands, read a lecture to the House on the great inconvenience of making that motion, by an abuse, the opportunity for indulging in desultory discussions. I believe the Secretary of State even intimated that if the
 432 433 Essay on Man 434 435 436
 MR. PACKE  said, that he could not allow the House to go to a division on this Motion without entering his protest against this Bill, which he considered was as unfair, unequal, and unjust a measure, as regarded taxation, as had ever been proposed to the House of Commons. One portion of this Bill provided for the transmission of periodical publications by post; but there was no occasion for any such provision, as, under the present law, newspapers circulated alike in town and country on the payment of the stamp. The present measure would give to the metropolis, and the large towns throughout the kingdom, newspapers free of expense; but what would be its effect in the agricultural districts? Hon. Members were aware that newspapers were sent forth every morning at six o'clock by means of the railways—they could not go by post—they would continue to be so sent, and all persons in the metropolis and large towns would receive their commercial intelligence free of any charge of duty; but  The Mark Lane Express 442
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  could assure the hon. Gentleman that he did not object to this case being brought forward, but he should have been glad to have had a more specific notice of what case was to be discussed, for he could not gather from the notice of Motion what particular case was to be brought forward.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  did not make it a subject of complaint, but all he wished was, to show that unless some sort of notice of what was to be asked of the Government was given, it was difficult to give a proper explanation, and he hoped the House would not impute to him want of care in not being acquainted with the details of a particular case, when the notice was only "to call attention to the transport service." He could state that a reform had been made in the transport service; a Board had been constituted of three gentlemen—a captain in the navy, an experienced captain in the transport service, and an officer in the army—all of whom were the most competent persons that could be found, and he had every reason to hope that the service would be efficiently performed. With regard to the particular case of the  Seringapatam Seringapatam; 439 Seringapatam *
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, as he was altogether unprepared with documents, it was impossible for him to enter into any detailed statement. If the hon. and gallant Member would call at the Admiralty, he should be glad to afford him every information on the subject.
 MR. CAYLEY  thought that, after the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, his hon. Friend would act wisely in not pressing his clause. He wished, however, to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he was willing to consent to an extension of the period for retransmitting newspapers through the post? The ostensible object of the Bill was to extend the circulation of news, but if the limit at present proposed to the retransmission of newspapers were not extended, the circulation of news would be considerably curtailed.
 MR. HORSMAN : It is quite true that the gentlemen referred to in the question of the hon. and gallant Member have arrived in London, and have been examined relative to the evidence taken before the Maynooth Commissioners. I will state as briefly as I can the results of the inquiry which has been made by the Government. When the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) brought forward his charges, I could only state in reply, that those charges did not appear to me to rest upon sufficient evidence; the information of the hon. Gentleman being, as I understood, anonymous. Subsequently, however, in consequence of what took place here and elsewhere, I was led to the conclusion that a general impression prevailed that those charges were very important, and called for an inquiry on the part of the Government. Accordingly, on Monday last I told the hon. Member for North Warwickshire that if he would be so good as to give me an opportunity of seeing the documents upon which he founded his accusations, I would make them, if necessary, the subject of an investigation. I wrote the same day to Ireland, requesting that the two secretaries to the Commissioners would come to London, bringing with them all the documents in their possession, the evidence in proof,
 406 "Was the noble Lord at the head of the Government aware that in the return of the priests educated at Maynooth, made by the officer of the College, and published in the appendix to the Report, the full territorial titles were given to the Archbishop of Armagh as the 'Primate of all Ireland,' and to Dr. Cullen as 'Apostolic Legate of the Pope,' both of which designations were in open defiance of the Act of Parliament passed by the noble Lord the Member for London a few years ago? The law had thus been trampled upon, apparently with the sanction of the Commissioners; but the sanction was only apparent, because he was authorised by Lord Harrowby, one of their number, to say that these territorial titles did not appear in the return when given in evidence before them, and must have been inserted afterwards." "In order that we might learn the proportion of priests who had been educated at Maynooth, we sent to the president of the College a copy of  Battersby's Catholic Directory Battersby's Catholic Directory 407 Directory Directory; "That alterations had been made in the evidence, that the full territorial titles had been given on the third time of correction, while in the transcript of the shorthand writer's notes the Roman Catholic bishops were only designated by their legal titles of bishops, and that they were afterwards inserted." 408 "My dear Sir—I find that a question is to be put to you to-night on the subject of some charges which have been brought by Mr. Spooner against the secretaries of the late Maynooth Commission, and as I have reason to believe that he supported those charges by reference to a conversation held with me, I am anxious that this opportunity should be taken for a clearer statement of the spirit at least of what passed between us than seems to have been conveyed. A few days before Mr. Spooner's Motion he called me out of the House of Lords and told me that he had discovered that the evidence given before the Commission had been tampered with; that the ecclesiastical titles which Parliament had forbidden parties to assume had been admitted into our Report and evidence; that it had been ascertained by the indisputable testimony of some of the original transcripts, which by some strange accident had fallen into his hands, that these titles had been subsequently introduced into the printed evidence; that it appeared also, by a comparison of the same papers, that other and large alterations had been introduced subsequently to our last revise. He asked me if the Commission had sanctioned the assumption of these titles. My answer was—Certainly not; that we had been very careful on the subject, and my learned colleague, Dr. Twiss, particularly vigilant, so that I thought no such assumption could have escaped his observation. I told him that, the evidence having been returned by some of the witnesses after we had left Ireland, we had given it in charge to the secretaries to compare the evidence so returned with the shorthand writer's notes, and to admit what appeared to be mere clerical corrections, reserving for our consideration any more material changes; that I had not read through the evidence as finally laid on the table of Parliament for the purpose of comparing it with the original transcript, and therefore could not deny off-hand his assertion, but that I had no reason to doubt the fidelity and honour of the secretaries on whom this care devolved; but that at any rate, I said, laughing, he
 409 410 411 412
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he wished to correct a false impression under which the hon. Gentleman was labouring. The secretaries had not remained passive and silent. He had himself had no communication with the secretaries, but he had learned that a letter had been addressed by those Gentlemen to the Chief Commissioner (the Earl of Harrowby), in which they referred to the statements of the hon.
 420
 MR. FRENCH  said, that the hon. and gallant Member (Major Reed) had a notice on the present state of public affairs, and as another hon. Member (Mr. Layard) had already occupied that ground, he would put it to him whether he would think it expedient to anticipate the discussion of the hon. Member for Aylesbury, upon the issue of which the fate of the Government might depend.
 COLONEL GREVILLE  rose to put a question which arose out of statements that had been made respecting the Report of the Maynooth Commission—statements to the effect that the Report had been sent to Rome without the permission of the Commissioners, and that there the Report was garbled. He wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland whether it was true that Mr. O'Ferrall, one of the Commissioners for inquiring into the College of Maynooth, and the two secretaries to the Commission, had been summoned to London and examined as to the circumstances connected with the transmission of the evidence and Report to Rome, and the alleged additions and alteration in the evidence, without the knowledge or sanction of the Commissioners?
 MR. G. BUTT  would wish to leave things as they were at the present moment, if he could think that the Commission was doing any real good; but neither from experience nor from inquiry had he learned that that Commission had yet consolidated any branch of the law. The state of our statute law was a disgrace, and subject of universal ridicule and contempt both in this and in foreign countries; and the injury caused by its condition, not only to English lawyers, but to the public, was very great. He would suggest that they should re-instruct the Commission—not in the terms of the hon. Gentleman's Motion, but taking great branches of the law, and consolidating the statutes upon those great heads.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that he did not think the task would be so difficult as the noble Lord had stated. The admirable work of Sir D. W. Evans was produced during his intervals of leisure from professional business in Manchester; and if a competent person were appointed to continue and complete the same work, it would no doubt be executed in a much more satisfactory manner than it ever could be by the Commission of which the Lord Advocate was an ornament. The matter would only be cushioned for many a long year to come by being referred back to the Government.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, there was either a deficiency in the survey or in the qualifications of the vessel. He held that a Transport Board composed of three persons of equal authority could never prove efficient. If they wished to fix responsibility on a department, they should place one man over it as its head, giving to him assistants and advisers, but that his voice should be supreme; but when they made a Board consist of three members of equal authority, one a soldier, another a sailor, and the third a civilian—it was impossible that those members could agree on any knotty point, as each saw from opposite points of view. He believed that, under the conduct of so efficient an officer as Captain Milne, the transport service might have gone on very well as it was, without the revival of the Transport
 441
 MR. I. BUTT  said, if the House undertook the duty set forth in the hon. Member's Resolution it would be unprecedented. What was the authority of the House to compile a second edition of the statutes? A publication of that kind would have no more weight than the compilation which had been referred to. What would be the use of sending out a volume which would have no weight in the courts of law, or be any guide to lawyers? He was anxious at all times to uphold the dignity of the House, and therefore he was reluctant to see the House deal with matters which it was unfit to deal with, and could not execute properly.
 MR. HEYWOOD  expressed a fear that, if the Commission went on at its present tardy pace, they would all be dead and buried before the consolidation of the statutes was completed. There would be no greater blessing, in his opinion, than such a consolidation as would do away with those obsolete enactments which now disfigured the statute book.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he was a Member of the Statute Law Commission, though he must say he had not had an opportunity of attending many of their meetings; but he had sufficient knowledge of their procedure to be able to say that it was by no means fair to represent their labours as being so fruitless as hon. Members had stated. The task that Commission had to perform was one of the most difficult that could be imagined, and if a Committee of the House took upon themselves to decide what statutes were repealed, obsolete, or expired, they would very soon find they had undertaken a task far beyond their powers. He knew this—that upon various subjects of the law there had been drafted consolidation statutes, not final, but to be referred to the deliberation of the Commission; and it would be very impolitic to supersede those labours in the
 460
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he had hitherto refrained from saying anything on this measure, because he had a direct personal interest in it; but the question was now no longer one of personal interest to him after the decisions which had been come to, and he had no feelings of delicacy as to speaking on it. He was anxious to make a few observations to the Chancellor of the Exchequer in order to cause him to reconsider a proposition which would stand as a barrier against the complete success of his measure. He understood that the principle on which the right hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Milner Gibson) had pushed this measure before the House, and the principle on which the Chancellor of the Exchequer and his colleagues had proceeded, was from a desire to give to the public the largest amount of political intelligence through the best channels, and not to benefit individual newspaper proprietors, but to give the largest amount of advantage to the public. He went entirely with the Government and the right hon. Gentleman on this question. A proposition had been put before the House for the introduction of a copyright clause, but this had been withdrawn on account of strong expressions of disapproval from all sides of the House. One newspaper, he believed, asked for a copyright for a certain number of hours, in order to protect itself from the piracy of other journals, and especially of the cheap newspapers. The House was against this proposal, and, had it been put as a substantive amendment, he should have voted against it, no matter how great might be the inconvenience to one newspaper of the refusal of such a copyright. He considered that the adoption of such a restrictive law would have been the means of injuring not only the London evening
 443 The Times bonus The Times 444 d. The Times The Times The Times The Times The Times The Times The Times 445 The Times The Times The Times The Times The 446 Times The Herald, The Post, The Chronicle, The Daily News The Times The Times The Times? The Manchester Examiner The Times 447 If The Times The Times? The Times The Times 448
 MR. MAGUIRE  remarked, that the power of retransmission was no advantage to the newspaper proprietor, but was a great advantage to the public.
 MR. VANCE  trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would consult the interests of the trade in allowing the Bill to come into operation on the 1st of October.
 MR. HENLEY  had no doubt that the present discussion would be productive of beneficial results, inasmuch as it would show that attention was directed to the subject. At the same time, people would deceive themselves if they imagined the consolidation of the statutes could be very speedily effected.
 MR. NAPIER  said, that the practical object of the Motion appeared to him to be a most desirable one. With regard to the Commission that was actually sitting it was proposed to include Ireland, and a communication was made to him soon after he was appointed a Member of that Commission, requesting him to make suggestions as to the course that should be adopted with respect to Irish law. He made a number of suggestions accordingly; but up to this time was not aware that they had produced any effect. They were going on every day in that House increasing, by the passing of new Acts, the anomaly that existed with regard to statute law of the Empire. The plan he suggested was, that the Commission should take up by degrees the subjects that were of immediate and pressing importance, and that they should pay a number of gentlemen of experience to frame statutes to be submitted to the decision of practical men, and thus they
 459
 MR. NAPIER  was not present when his hon. Friend brought forward his clause, but it occurred to him that it was a reasonable proposition, because otherwise an additional tax might be placed upon the circulation of advertisements, and it was of great importance to the community generally that every facility should be given to the circulation of advertisements. As, however, the feelings of the House was in favour of the Bill as it now stood, he thought his hon. Friend would not feel inclined to press the clause.
 MR. NAPIER , in the absence of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Enniskillen (Mr. Whiteside), then moved that the following clause be added to the Bill:—
 Every periodical publication that shall be printed and published at intervals not exceeding seven days between the two consecutive parts or numbers of such publication, and the weight of which shall not on the whole exceed six ounces, shall be entitled to the said privileges of transmission and retransmission by the post, if duly stamped with the appropriate die of one penny."
 MAJOR REED  said, that, in answer to the question of the hon. Gentleman opposite, he could only say that he had no desire to violate any rule of the House. He, however, could not see that similarity between his Motion and that of the hon. Member for Aylesbury, which appeared to have made an impression upon the hon. Gentleman opposite. The Motion of the hon. Member for Aylesbury was a vote of censure upon the Government. His (Major Reed's) Motion was of an entirely different character. As an independent Member, neither desiring nor seeking office, he wished to give his cordial support to Her Majesty's Government in the critical circumstances in which the country was now placed. His object was to induce the noble Lord at the head of the Government to make such a general statement, consistent with his public duty, as would be satisfactory to the country at large. Under these circumstances, he did not feel it would he consistent with his position as a Member belonging to no particular party or faction, to acquiesce in the proposal of the hon. Gentleman; and he should accordingly proceed in the terms of his Motion—
 "To call the attention of Her Majesty's Government to the highly critical position of public affairs, and to the increasing anxiety and dissatisfaction which at present pervades all classes of society, and to impress upon Her Majesty's Government the wisdom of immediately anticipating those consequences which are certain to arise from continual popular demonstrations, by at once introducing such reforms in every branch
 421 "Awake, arise, or be for ever fallen !"
 MR. MONTAGU CHAMBERS  thought it a very unusual course for Gentlemen to object to the third reading of a Bill, every point of which had been thoroughly discussed and investigated, and on the principle of which they themselves had voted. As he understood the objection, it was this—they objected to the third reading of this Bill, because they thought a particular newspaper was about to be injured by it. He liked that little persons should be considered by that House. He did not like that persons of great importance, weight, and authority, should alone be considered by them, and, as he understood it, this was a question (he would not shrink from saying it) between  The Times Cries of
 MR. BLACKBURN  moved that, instead of a duty of 12 s. d. s. d. s. s. d. s. s. d. 455 s. d. s. d.
 MR. MALINS  thought the explanation was not sufficiently distinct. The public knew nothing about superficial inches, what they knew was— The Times The Times The Times The Times 453
 Mr. MALINS  said, the effect of the Bill, as he understood it, was to expose the public to the great inconvenience of not being able to send  The Times The Times The Times
 MR. MALINS  said, he was one of those who did not expect much from the labours of any Commission which was not empowered to say that the statutes which it drew should be the only ones necessary to be referred to. People talked about consolidating the statute law as though there was not already in existence a collection of the statutes by Sir W. D. Evans, from the earliest period down to the time of George IV., which, in eight small octavo volumes, contained everything that was required for ordinary purposes; and even a professional man would scarcely have occasion to refer to anything else above once a year. With regard to this motion, he was not very much impressed with the idea that a Committee would be of any great utility. The consolidation of the statutes must be a labour of years. It could not be done in one Parliament, and it was a task which a Committee could not be expected to undertake, and which, even if it did undertake it, it could not satisfactorily perform.
 MR. SPOONER  said, that his right hon. Friend had never told him of that. What was the date of the note? [Mr. HORSMAN intimated that it was soon after Mr. Spooner's speech reached Dublin.] And yet Lord Harrowby had remained silent up to the present moment.
 MR. SPOONER  hoped the House would grant him its indulgence after what had passed. His right hon. Friend, if he would still allow him to call him so, had placed him in a painful position. He was obliged to say, and he did it with great pain, that the letter of Lord Harrowby was full of inaccuracies, and he was now prepared to reassert in the strongest manner, that what he (Mr. Spooner) had stated on a former occasion, was exactly what passed between them. The noble Lord said, he merely gave the spirit of the conversation which passed; that, of course, was a matter of construction, but he (Mr. Spooner) had given, not the exact words, certainly—for that would be impossible, of any conversation which was not written down at the time—but the substance of what passed, and that substance differed very much from what Lord Harrowby represented to be the spirit. He did not mean to impute to the noble Lord any intentional misrepresentation, but he could show such inaccuracies in the letter, as to convince every one that
 413 414 415 416 primâ facie 417 "The evidence remained in Rome for some weeks, if not months; and, while Parliament and the country had been waiting the result of the inquiry, it had been cooked to make things pleasant." 418 419
 MR. BELLEW  said, his reason for not giving a more specific notice was, that as the Secretary of War had signed the papers connected with the case, he supposed that he had submitted so gross a case to the proper authorities, and he was not aware that he would be answered by the First Lord of the Admiralty.
 MR. BELLEW , in rising to draw attention to the state of the transport service, observed that unless he brought forward the subject in its present form, the whole session might pass over before he could have an opportunity of referring to it. The hon. Gentleman then proceeded to allude to the ease of the  Seringapatam Seringapatam Seringapatam Seringapatam * 437 Seringapatam Seringapatam. 438
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that he had lately asked whether there would be any objection to lay upon the table the Report of the Commissioners who had been appointed to inquire into the system of military administration in France; and he wished to know if the Government could now state whether that Report would be produced?
 MR. HANKEY  said, it was agreed last year that the whole of these duties should be laid down at a minimum price; and the late Chancellor of the Exchequer feeling, when he increased these duties 20 per cent, that an injustice would be done to a certain description of sugar, he created another class with a reduced duty. All the West India interest was to be put on the same footing as the East India interest, and he (Mr. Hankey) was surprised to hear the right hon. Gentleman regret that he had assented to this arrangement.
 MR. BARROW  contended that injustice was, by this measure, inflicted on provincial newspapers, because, while they were of less weight and passed through the Post Office less frequently than the London papers, they would have to pay the same for transmission. He believed the Post Office could carry all newspapers at a
 449
 MR. MONSELL  replied that, until lately, such inventions as those to which the hon. Gentleman referred had been investigated by a Committee consisting of  ex officio
 MR. GROGAN  asked whether the noble Lord at the head of the Government had any objection to state to the House the nature of a telegraphic despatch which was said to have been that day received from the East?
 MR. GROGAN , in consequence of the arrangement alluded to, withdrew his amendments. But he trusted the Bill would come into operation on the 1st of October, otherwise great injury would result to the trade.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he had put amendments of a serious nature on the paper, but he understood that there had been an arrangement entered into with the parties interested to pass another Bill to obviate certain grievances. When would it be introduced?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that Her Majesty's Government were not prepared to assent to the Motion. The object of the hon. Member, the consolidation of the statutes, was a very important one; but there was a Statute Law Commission actually sitting, and if the statute law was to be consolidated at all, it could be much better done by a Commission than by a Committee. If the hon. and learned Gentleman thought that the Statute Law Commission was not properly discharging its duty, he should bring that question formally before the House.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  understood that the object of the Motion was not—as had been alleged—that a Committee should undertake the work of consolidating the statutes, but that it should simply consider the best mode of effecting that task. It was impossible that the Government, with so much already on its hands, could accomplish this additional task; and, as for the Commission that had
 462
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  said, he agreed with much that had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had spoken in opposition to the Bill, but he objected to making it a personal question. As a Member of the Committee appointed to consider the removal of the stamp and advertisement duty, he agreed with those who held that great advantage would arise to the community from the freest possible communication between the press and the public. Still he could not consider that it was necessary to give to the newspaper press any particular monopoly. He would carry out the principle of free trade in newspapers as in everything else, for it did not appear to him that newspaper proprietors required such a monopoly. He thought he was well advised, when he said that a newspaper would cost three times as much as a letter in its carriage. A newspaper weighed four ounces at least, while an ordinary letter weighed only half an ounce, and the House was now called upon to allow four ounces to pass through the post eight or ten times while an ordinary half-ounce letter could pass only once. He did not for a moment believe that the press would call upon the House to do such an act of injustice, inasmuch as newspaper proprietors had the privilege of one transmission for a penny, which was quite as much as they required. He must protest against the statement that newspaper proprietors required any such privilege.
 MR. ATHERTON  opposed the Motion. It was very probable that the Committee asked for would recommend the very gentlemen who now edited the statutes to do the work which the hon. Member for West Surrey desired to be executed, and which they, in fact, already did to the satisfaction of the legal profession and the public. If the Commission which was now in force properly performed its duty, it would recommend to the Government such a plan as ought to be the foundation of a Bill to be passed by Parliament on the subject. He therefore hoped that the House would not render useless the labours of the Commission now in force by agreeing to the Motion.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that what had passed showed two things, namely the great importance of the subject, and the extreme difficulty of accomplishing the object in view. If the Committee which his hon. Friend proposed to appoint was to be expected to perform itself any part of the work to which the Resolution applied, what fell from the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite was quite conclusive that the Committee was not the instrument by which it would be possible in any degree whatever to accomplish so great and arduous an undertaking. He concluded that the object of his hon. Friend was, not that the Committee should proceed itself to effect a consolidation of the statutes, but to inquire into the proceedings of the Commission. With all deference to his hon. Friend, he thought that was rather the duty of the Government than of a Committee of that House, and he was sure that the Government had better means than a Committee to go into the examination. He agreed in the statement that should the Committee begin by taking evidence, the proceedings would be of great length, and after all they might not come to a clear and definite conclusion. Many persons thought that the duty of the Commission was to pick out the statutes which
 461
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said: I can assure the hon. Gentleman that there is no indisposition on the part of the Government to publish, so far as may be consistent with their public duty, any information which they may receive from the East, and which may be of public interest. I am informed that the substance of the telegraphic communication received to-day is in the evening papers. It refers to an attack which was made yesterday morning upon part of our lines by the Russians, and which was defeated with great gallantry and success by our troops. Before sitting down, I will suggest one consideration to the House. The telegraphic despatches from the Crimea necessarily come in cypher. Now, everybody who is conversant with these matters knows that if you have a cypher on one side, and a literal translation of it on the other, the cypher will very soon be of no use whatever. It is impossible, therefore, for the Government, in communicating intelligence which comes by telegraph in cypher, to give the exact words, or anything approaching to them.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I have no doubt it will be in the power of the Government to give the despatch referred to in such a shape as will completely answer the object of the Committee, without doing the injustice the noble Lord seemed to fear.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the course which the hon. and gallant Member has taken is, in my opinion, perfectly justified by the present position of public affairs, and by the feeling of the House and of the country. I am not disposed, therefore,
 422 423 424 425 426 427 428 429 430 431
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  stated, that Her Majesty's Government had applied to
 402
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he was prepared to accede
 562
 ADMIRAL JONES  said, he would beg to move, to insert in Schedule B, after "eight hundred and fifty-five," the words "or bonded under the Act of the 17 & 18  Vict., c.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would suggest that the hon. and gallant Member should withdraw the Amendment which he had moved, and give notice of that and any other Amendments which he might wish to make, all of which could then be considered upon the third reading of the Bill, which he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) proposed should take place on the morrow.
 ADMIRAL JONES  said, he would assent to the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHE-QUER  said, he proposed immediately after Whitsuntide to bring in a Bill, to come into operation on the 1st of October next, to promote the distillation of spirits from malt in bond, and to make some small addition to the duty. It was also his intention to extend the same regulations to sugar as to malt.
 CAPTAIN DUNCOMBE  said, he thought that the fairest course would have been to have had the intended alterations of Hob-house's Act in print, and then the House would have been able to form a judgment as to what that Act was likely to be before it was incorporated in the present Bill.
 VISCOUNT EBRINCTON  said, he did not think there was much satisfaction with the Bill, even among the ground landlords, but the persons most aggrieved were those who laid out their capital in buildings—who were, practically, owners for a great number of years of the land which they were in possession of, and who would have no voice in the disposal of the taxation to which they were subjected. If the sewers, rates were paid by the owners, the authorities would have the pleasure of constructing sewers upon other people's property with other people's money, thus dissevering taxation and representation. He believed the Public Health Bill—not the Bill of his right hon. colleague—had worked very well for the interests of the owners as well as for the interests of the poor. He should have the pleasure of supporting the proposal of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Sir F. Thesiger), not for
 575
 MR. PERCY  said, he was quite satisfied that nothing would be done unless the
 581
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he looked on this as one of the most important parts of the Bill. It proposed the appointment of a Board with an endless power of assessment, and the right to dispose of the money as it pleased. When they proposed to give them such extensive powers with regard to assessment, they ought, at the same time, to enable them to carry out the whole scheme of the drainage of the metropolis without limit. The metropolis was sick of Commissioners of Sewers; but he must warn the Committee not to run into the other extreme of appointing a Board of Representatives which should prove equally extravagant in its expenditure and defective in its working. It appeared to him that there was a great want of the scientific element upon this proposed Board of Works. With regard to the Amendment, there could be no doubt that the system of sewers must be different on both sides of the Thames; and, therefore, the ratepayers on the south side had some foundation for their claim to a separate Board, and on that ground it might perhaps be desirable to have separate Boards. But, on the other hand, great inconvenience
 582
 MR. PORTMAN  said, he could confirm the statement made by the right hon. the President of the Board of Health, that his Bill was satisfactory to large proprietors in the metropolis.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, plurality of voting was the cause of discontent in all the metropolitan parishes with which he was acquainted, and in his opinion nothing could more certainly exclude gentlemen from the management of parochial affairs than its existence in a parish. In all the cases of agreement between landlord and tenant with which he was acquainted it was covenanted that the occupying tenant should pay the rates and taxes.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, he fully agreed with what had been said by the right hon. Member for Taunton (Mr. Labouchere), and he also thought that the hon. Member for Evesham (Sir H. Willoughby) was not justified in occupying, as he had, the attention of the House, as his objections were made not to the principle, but to the details of this measure, which could better be discussed in Committee. His right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Health had stated the alterations which he proposed to make in Hobhouse's Act, and the House had apparently assented to them, so that the noble Lord the Member for Marylebone (Viscount Ebrington) could not object to the Bill on this ground. It had been stated, among other things, that at present in the large parishes there was a great difficulty created by reason of there being but one polling place, and that this prevented many persons from coming to give their votes. In order to obviate this he would suggest that large parishes should be divided into polling districts, and that each district should send a certain number
 568
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, he begged to ask the right hon. President of the Board of Health, whether forms were issued to the legally qualified medical practitioners of the metropolis last year, inviting them to fill them up, in order to exhibit the result of the various methods adopted by them for the treatment of cholera? Whether, when those forms were returned, the Medical Council of the Board of Health refused to take cognisance of any of them, or of any returns of a like nature made by the legally qualified medical officers of any hospital, and, if so, for what reason? And if any correspondence had taken place between the general Board of Health and any persons complaining of omissions in the report issued by the Board as to the results of cholera treatment, and, if so, whether he had any objection to lay it upon the table of the House?
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, that, the principle of Municipal Boards being generally conceded, the next question to be considered was the number. He hoped his right hon. Friend would not reduce the numbers too much. The City Commission of Sewers was a very large body, and yet, as he understood, it worked very efficiently. The great bugbear seemed to be the payment. His right hon. Friend thought that the chairman should be paid highly, but others thought he should not be paid at all. That was, however, a matter the consideration of which might be postponed.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, he saw no reason why the usual practice should be departed from in the present instance. He thought the Board should be at liberty to appoint their own Chairman.
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  Said, he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, on what grounds he had refused to comply with the request of the parishioners of Grantham, that the right of interment in existing vaults in the parish church should be continued to the proprietors of the said vaults, the representation of the said vaults, the representation for closing the burial ground not having yet Council?
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he would second the proposition, because he considered the Bill to be as yet in too crude a state for consideration by a Committee of the whole House, nor did he think that it had been fairly discussed on its second reading. He would also remind hon. Members that the Bill contained no fewer than 186 clauses, a greater number than could be conveniently discussed below stairs.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  then withdrew his Amendment, and the clause was  agreed to.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he wished to propose an Amendment, the effect of which was to divide the proposed Board of Works into two Boards, one having authority north of the Thames, and the other having authority south of the Thames.
 MR. LAYARD : Sir, before the noble Lord answers the question which has just been addressed to him by the right hon. Member for Manchester, perhaps he will permit me to ask one also. I suppose it will be convenient to the House that the right hon. Gentleman's Motion for an Address to the Crown should be discussed before Whitsuntide. If so, it must also he convenient to the House that the day on which I am to bring forward the Resolutions of which I have given notice should be fixed. Now, if quite convenient to the noble Lord, I would suggest either Friday or Monday next as the day for introducing my Resolutions to the notice of the House. I can assure the noble Lord that I have no wish to take any unfair advantage of the Government.
 MR. DISRAELI : I wish, Sir, also to make an inquiry of the Government with reference to the same subject. The noble Lord has just said, that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester, who has given notice of an Address to Her Majesty upon the papers connected with the late negotiations, can avail himself of any of those days which are open to every hon. Gentleman to bring that subject under the consideration of the House at once. Now, I apprehend, looking to the state of the Notice Paper, that it is clearly impossible for the right hon. Gentleman so to bring forward the Address of which he has given notice. Besides, I wish to draw the attention of the noble Lord to the circumstance that I do not find any precedent, when the negotiations had been terminated, and when the papers had been laid on the table, where the Minister has not himself given notice of moving an Address to the Crown with respect to those papers, and with regard to the conduct of those negotiations. Now, I will not make any observation upon the reasons which induce the Government now not to take that course; but I apprehend, if they are not prepared to take that course, they are bound—and I ask the noble Lord whether he does not feel himself bound—to secure to any hon. Member not connected with the Government an opportunity of fulfilling his duty in that respect.
 MR. DISRAELI : Then it is not the intention of the noble Lord himself to propose an Address of that character?
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, he was quite sure that the proposal of the right hon. Baronet (Sir B. Hall) would not meet the objection which he (Sir P. Thesiger) made to this clause, which forced parishes to adopt Hobhouse's Act whether they chose it or not. It was not only fair and just, but it was absolutely necessary, that there should be a plurality of votes, especially in large towns, to protect property. If plurality of votes were abolished in this instance, a blow would be struck at the principle in other instances—such as the Poor Law. He (Sir F. Thesiger) considered the question of such importance, that he should certainly divide the Committee on the clause.
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, the clause was one of considerable importance, and he thought the House would have done fight if it had adopted the proposition of the noble Lord opposite (Viscount Ebrington). The clause proposed to import Hobhouse's Act into the Bill; whilst it was said that it would not work with the Bill, unless certain alterations were made in Hobhouse's Act. Now, how could the right hon. Gentleman who had charge of the Bill avouch, with any certainty, the passing of the Bill to amend that Act in the manner which he had pointed out. Surely the more prudent course would have been to have ascertained the opinion of the House on that subject in the first instance. Now, what would be the effect of Hobhouse's Act on this Bill. There was no doubt the Bill would impose very considerable charges on property. Now, property ought to be adequately represented and protected. Under the Vestry Act, 58  Geo. 574
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he considered that it was important that the principle of voting should be ascertained before this Bill was proceeded with. The true principle of voting, as had been stated by the noble Lord the Member for Marylebone (Viscount Ebrington), was, that it ought to be regulated by the charge on property, and it would be monstrous to give to those who were not to bear the charge the power of fixing any amount of charge. The House must recollect that this was not like a case where the charge was leviable for one year, for it would be for the immense works properly contemplated by this Bill. The right hon. Baronet said the principle of single voting was the best for large towns, but he did not propose to apply that principle to small places. Why not? Why should not owners have the same facilities given them for protecting their property in the one case as in the other? It was most important that this clause, which was the foundation of the Bill, should be clearly understood, and he therefore hoped that the right hon. Baronet would postpone it until after he laid upon the table the Bill for the modification of Hobhouse's Act, so that the House could see what was intended, and do it justice, for he was certain it was the desire of the right hon. Baronet to act as fairly as possible.
 MR. H. B. BARING  said, he had presented several petitions from different localities affected by the Act, protesting against the irresponsible powers of the Board, and praying that care might be taken to ensure the election of competent persons to be members of it. Unless this was done he was convinced that the Board would be at the mercy of their engineers and staff, and the only business they would have to do would be to register their works. He should rather approve of a Board of scientific persons, appointed by the Crown, but he was afraid they were too much out of favour. He hoped that if the Board was to be constituted as proposed in this clause, the number of members would be reduced, say to fifteen members, they might be paid something like two guineas for their attendance each day, like the board of directors of railways, and be made responsible to their constituents.
 MR. H. B. BARING  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the great part of the speech of his noble Friend who had just sat down was an attack upon the principle of the Bill, which, the House bad already ratified. He thought it would be most inconvenient to enter into a discussion upon generalities, and he therefore trusted that the House would proceed to consider the improvement of details of this Bill in Committee, which was certainly the most convenient opportunity. It would hardly be fair to his right hon. Friend (Sir B. Hall) to postpone a measure of this infinite importance, especially as he had said that he would state the details of the measure he proposed to bring in. He trusted, therefore, that the House would go into Committee.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he could not allow the Bill to pass without entering his protest against it. It was the reversal of a policy that had greatly benefited the country, and the Bill would bring down on the Government the malediction of every cottage in the kingdom. They would never have proposed it had they had financial ability, or had they known the country as well as they knew the mere circle which constituted the Government. He protested against the duties upon tea, coffee, and sugar, and although the House might not respond to that expression of opinion on his part, he was sure the country would do so.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that it was impossible to argue this question as to whether there should be northern and southern Boards without looking at the powers which were to be given to those Boards. This was the most important part of the Bill, if they looked at the want in the metropolis of a system of arterial drainage. Commission after Commission had failed to bring their minds and that of the public to agree as to what was to be done to get means for this purpose, and the way in which it was to be done. He did not think that this would be effected if they had too large a Board—for if they had, a great difference of opinion would arise, and there would not be sufficient executive power in the Board. In the arterial scheme in the present Bill they would have two difficulties to contend with. They would first have to get ratepayers sufficiently liberal to vote the required sum of money to carry out the scheme, and then the scientific men employed by them must have sufficient consideration to fix upon a plan which would be approved of by the scientific men appointed by Government. With reference to the Motion before the Committee, he thought that in order to get the metropolis well drained they ought to have a Board with considerable executive power, and that the greater
 583
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to ask for the opinion of Government with reference to the application, under this Bill, of money which was voted for one purpose being devoted to another.
 MR. HEYWORTH  said, he felt called upon to warn the House against proceeding in the course indicated by this Bill, as he considered it one which would prove destructive to the best interests of the country. If, instead of increasing the duty on the articles in this Bill, the Government had increased the taxes on the property of the country, and had raised the income tax, such a course would have had the two-fold advantage of making hon. Members more observant of the evils of war, and would at the same time have relieved the working classes and the nation at large from the effects of the perverse legislation of the present Bill.
 MR. MONTAGU CHAMBERS  said, he should oppose the Amendment, but, at the same time, he must reserve to himself the right of opposing the objectionable clauses of the Bill when the House should go into Committee.
 MR. MONTAGU CHAMBERS  said, he hoped, if the House went into Committee, it would not be understood that by doing so Members gave their assent to all the principles of the Bill, especially to the clause making the application of Hobhouse's Act compulsory, for there was some reason to fear that such a proceeding would create political dissension in many parishes hitherto peaceable. With that reservation he did not object to going into Committee.
 MR. MONTAGU CHAMBERS  said, the majority of his constituents were not satisfied to be compelled to adopt compulsorily the provisions of Hobhouse's Act. There was a meeting of ratepayers at Greenwich, at which dissent was expressed at the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman. He could not understand the mode of legislation in this case, because it appeared to him very strange to say, that though Hobhouse's Act should be adopted in the Bill entirely, it should be completely nullified afterwards by a new Bill, which was to overturn all that had been previously agreed upon. With great respect to the Committee, he would submit that
 579
 MR. MALINS  said, under the Vestry Act no man could have more than six votes, and he was perfectly satisfied with the law as it stood. He believed no one desired that the great landlords should have votes at all representing their interest, but they would be content to take the present limit of six votes. It was found a few years ago that the affairs of the parish of St. Luke, Chelsea, of which he was an inhabitant, had passed under the management of the small tradesmen, and that many abuses prevailed. The gentlemen of the parish took the matter in hand, and, by means of the plurality of votes they possessed, returned a certain number of themselves as guardians, and a marked improvement then took place in the parochial affairs. If the system of single votes were adopted this would be impossible, and the substantial inhabitants of the parish would be deprived of all voice in its management. Every man who occupied a house, however small, would have an equal right of taxing the parish as the man of the largest property. The principle was new, and it was, moreover, unjust; and it was so reasonable a man with larger property should have a
 578
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the principal question was with respect to single voting and plurality of voting, and he did not think the objections on that head had been well met by the right hon. Baronet. If the principle were good in the one case
 577
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he considered the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for Marylebone was most reasonable; but as the right hon. Baronet (Sir B. Hall) had intimated his intention with reference to alterations of Hobhouse's Act in this Bill, he thought his statement so far satisfactory as to induce the House to consider the details of the measure in Committee. He therefore hoped the noble Lord would consent to withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. WALPOLE  Said, it had come to his knowledge that many had hardly been used, and that in several of these instances the families were most anxious that further understood it to be the general rule at the Home Office to make no exception in any instance when the churchyard was absolutely closed. He wished to know how far the right hon. Gentleman's discretionary power extended to meet this point?
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the only argument for giving the districts the control of the sewers was, that it would vest in them local management, but, as had been pointed out by hon. Members, the 109th section entirely superseded that power and vested the control in the Metropolitan Board. The question was whether they might not obtain all they desired through the representative system they were establishing,
 584
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he believed that the metropolis generally approved of this Bill. The object of the authors of it appeared to him to be in forming an uniform system for the whole of the metropolis to introduce generally the principle of Hobhouse's Act, but it being found that to do so would place some parishes in a
 569 l. l.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, a short time since the Government laid on the table of the House certain papers relating to the recent negotiations at Vienna upon the Eastern question. I wish to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government whether he will, upon an early day, give the House an opportunity of expressing their opinions upon the information contained in those papers. I have, for one, given notice of an Address to the Crown with reference to that subject; and no doubt other hon. Members have formed views, after perusing those papers, which they are desirous of stating to the House. My inquiry, therefore, is, whether the noble Lord will give the House a very early opportunity of discussing and expressing their opinions of those papers?
 MR. MACKINNON : Sir, in the Motion I am about to make, I am desirous of giving all credit to the framers of this Bill for the trouble they have taken on the subject, but, at the same time, I must express my firm conviction that this Bill, as it now stands, can never pass into a law without great amendments and various alterations in its details. The purpose of the framers of this Bill seems to be, to establish all the parishes of the metropolis on one uniform principle in their vestries, in accordance with what is styled Hobhouse's Act. It is intended to have twenty parish vestries, fourteen districts, and two from the City—in all thirty-six, which are to elect forty-four persons to form a central Board for the local management of the metropolis, which Board elects a chairman with a salary of 2,000 l. 570 verbatim 571
 MR. WILKINSON  said, everything depended on the engagement that the right hon. Baronet would so modify the Bill as to make it palatable to all parties. He (Mr. Wilkinson) had never heard any objection in Lambeth to the system of single voting, though there had been objections made to other parts of the Bill. The Camberwell trustees objected to extending the time for taking the poll and other matters; but not a word of objection against the system of single voting. So, likewise, the Camberwell guardians of the poor. He (Mr. Wilkinson) would be glad to see the system of voting by papers replace the present system.
 MR. WILKINSON  said, that, although the natural division of the metropolis was the Thames, and although some advantages might be obtained by having two Boards, yet he could net help thinking that those advantages would be more than counterbalanced by want of unity. He agreed that it would add to the efficiency of the executive Board to put some limitation to the proposed number.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he would support the proposal of the hon. Member for Southwark (Mr. A. Pellatt), in deference to the opinions of influential persons on the south side of the Thames.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he agreed that time should be taken before the right hon. Baronet (Sir B. Hall) determined upon reducing the proposed number of the Metropolitan Board. He did not think the number was too large considering the extent of the metropolis, and the powers the Board would have to exercise.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he hoped the hon. Member for Rye (Mr. Mackinnon) would withdraw his Amendment. The principles and details of the measure had been fully canvassed at the meetings held in reference to it throughout the metropolis. Those principles had, he thought, been fully approved of, but some changes were desired in the details.
 Mr. W. WILLIAMS  said, he thought that some weight in the matter should be given to the feeling of the parishes. All the great parishes of the metropolis had agreed to adopt the Bill with certain modifications. It, therefore, behoved the Committee to attend more to the wishes of that large portion of the population than to the anticipations of the hon. and learned Member.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that if the great proprietors granted leases after the passing of this Bill they would take care that their tenants should still pay the rates and taxes.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he had had a great many representations made to him with reference to this important clause.
 580
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that he had on a previous occasion stated the nature of the amendments which he proposed to make in Hobhouse's Act. They were of a trifling character, and it would be impossible to introduce them into the present Bill, because only those localities likely to be affected by this measure would have the benefit of those amendments, He therefore thought it desirable to bring in a short Bill to amend Hobhouse's Act. He intended to adopt that Act in its integrity. He did not propose to have a system of plural voting in the metropolis, being of opinion that single voting was far preferable in large cities and towns. With respect to the non-adoption of Hobhouse's Act, he might stale that in the four most wealthy parishes in the metropolis—St. George's, Hanover Square; St. James's, Westminster; St. Pancras. and Marylebone—Hobhouse's Act was in force. It certainly was not a compulsory Act, and was so clogged with peculiar provisions that its adoption was a matter of great difficulty; and, as a proof of this, he might mention that, at a meeting which took place in Paddington the other day, only eleven persons voted against it, while some 2,800 persons voted in its favour; but as 2,800 ratepayers did not comprehend two-thirds of the whole of the ratepayers of the parish the Act could not be adopted.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, if he intended in the slightest degree to alter
 576 bonâ fide
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that, had it not been that he saw a notice of Motion on the paper with reference to this subject by his noble Friend and colleague (Viscount Ebrington), he should have contented himself with simply moving that Mr. Speaker leave the Chair. The noble Lord, however, had stated his intention to move as an Amendment, that the further consideration of the Bill be deferred till the House has decided upon the principles of the Bill announced by the President of the Board of Health for the modification of the Act
 563 Will. l. l. l. l. 564
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, almost immediately after he took office ho appointed a medical council to assist him during the time of the cholera. That body met first on the 6th of September, and soon after they issued certain forms which were sent to every regularly qualified practitioner of medicine whose name appeared in  The Medical Directory. The Medical Directory 558
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, it was the intention of the Commissioners that there should be only one Metropolitan Board, and he was of the same opinion. There were various reasons why there should be only one Board; the expense would be less than if they had two; and the Committee should consider in what respect the establishment of separate Boards would affect such questions as the embankment of the Thames, which had been before the House.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that it was his intention to take the 20th clause, but to postpone clauses 21, 22, 23, and 24, which determined the number of persons to be sent from the different districts to the central Board.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he could assure the Committee that this subject had been deeply considered, and the deliberate conclusion arrived at was, that it was impossible for one Metropolitan Board to manage the district as well as the main sewerage. It was their opinion that the management should be based on representative Government. His only object was to do that which would prove really beneficial to the metropolis. If the small tradesmen of the City of London were able to manage their own drainage, he could not understand why the aristocratic vestry of St. George's, Hanover Square, should be unable to undertake the management of the sewers of that district, which possessed every facility for drainage. So successful had been the management of the drainage of the city that the number of deaths in that district was only twenty in 1,000, while in other parts of the metropolis it was twenty-five, and sometimes thirty, in 1,000. He had no objection to empower the Metropolitan Board of Works to take upon itself the drainage of districts when the local authorities were unwilling to undertake it.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he was
 585
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, a discretionary power existed in the Secretary of State to grant licences for interment in such cases; but it could only be granted upon the report of the medical inspector of the Board of Health. If the application was made before the death of the party to be interred, then an inspector might be sent down, and the ease would be decided on its merits. But if the application was made after death had taken place, then he apprehended there would be no time to make these arrangements.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  Said, the medical inspector of the Board of Health had applied to have the churchyard closed on sanitary grounds,; and an order had been made that it should be closed absolutely in two years—namely, on the 1st January, 1857. There had been recent applications to exempt the vaults in the churchyard from the operation of the order; but he did not think that he would be justified in acceding to it. He would not, however, say that same exception might not be made in special cases where sufficient cause for so doing was shown.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he hoped that the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Rye (Mr. Mackinnon) was not going to lead to a long discussion. It appeared to him to be the wish of the House that they should at once go into Committee on the Bill. His hon. Friend's objections to the measure might be well grounded, but he (Sir G. Grey) did not think that he had stated grounds sufficient to justify the House to consent to his Amendment, but had, on the contrary, supplied strong reasons why the measure should be considered in a Committee of the whole House; for surely, as the measure is an important one, and if, as he (Mr. Mackinnon) had alleged, centralisation was the essence of it, the whole House was the best qualified body to consider it. His hon.
 572
 ADMIRAL PECHELL  said, he wished to see a greater freedom of voting conferred on the ratepayers than Hobhouse's Act gave them.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he approved of the principle of the Bill, but considered that its details were hardly intelligible. Could any one, for instance, tell how the Metropolitan Board was to be constituted? There were certainly several schedules attached to the Bill, but the first he understood was not to be acted upon, and the schemes set forth in the others were neither practicable nor intelligible, He therefore hoped before they went into Committee, some explanation would he given on this point. In another case he should like to know how Hobhouse's Act was to be applied to a small parish in London, where it would only act as a disfranchisement. He also found the powers of taxation given under this Bill were so enormous that the House if it understood what they were, would hardly grant them. In the case of some districts, where the amount of good conferred upon a wealthy district was to be considered by such a body as the proposed Board, he was afraid that these powers of taxation would virtually amount to confiscation. Under the
 567
 SIR JAMES DUKE  said, he thought that if the number of members of the central Board were curtailed the authority of the Board would be diminished, and great jealousies would be created in the various parishes.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that, speaking from his own experience as a Commissioner, he thought that it was impossible that one set of Commissioners could execute properly the whole drainage of the metropolis. No doubt the local authorities considered that that provision which gave them the management of the district sewers was one of the most valuable in the Bill, but the overlooking of the main and the connection of the district sewers was quite as much, he considered, as one Board could do. The noble Lord behind him (Lord Ebrington) was apprehensive that under this arrangement there would be a deficiency of science in carrying out the sewerage, but if they looked to the city they found that a Board composed of tradesmen, assisted by efficient engineers, were able to carry out their work in a satisfactory manner, and he was at a loss to understand why a similar Board in St. George's, Hanover Square, assisted by competent engineers, should not do the same. As regarded the other side of the water, he would remark that the Commissioners had already determined to carry out an arterial drain on the Surrey side, but, until some Bill of this sort passed, they had no power to purchase land for the outfall, and consequently could not move in the matter. They would, however, have everything in readiness for the operations of the body which was to succeed them.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that, as one of the Commissioners, he must protest against the Bill, because he thought it would prove inoperative and disappoint his right hon. Friend and the country. He disapproved of portions of the money which the Commissioners were authorised to borrow for the arterial drainage being devoted to the purpose of this Bill.
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, that the hon. Member for Evesham had stated that the present Bill contained very great powers, and had warned the ratepayers against the extent to which those powers might be carried. Now, he (Sir W. Clay) thought that all who had attended to the course of events in the metropolis, especially in the times of fearful epidemics, would feel that there were enormous evils to be contended with, which could only be met by considerable powers. He did not think that the powers in this Bill were too much for the purposes for which they were given, and, if the ratepayers felt themselves oppressed, they had the remedy in their own hands, because they could dismiss an incapable Board and elect a vestry in whom they had full confidence. The objection which had been made to the Bill had not been made to its principle, but had reference much more to its details. On the whole, he should support the Bill; for, though he was not insensible to the objections which had been urged against it. he thought they might be removed in Committee.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, that one advantage that would be gained by permitting the Board to select their own Chairman would be that they would in some measure consider themselves responsible for the manner in which their President performed his duties.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he must strongly urge the expediency of establishing one central authority over the Commissioners of Sewers. District Boards of management only served to create confusion and encourage extravagance.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, that if the management of the sewerage was to be placed under these thirty-six district Boards, they would be obliged to have thirty-six subsidiary staffs, which would be overpaid or underskilled, and probably both. If, however, they were to adopt the Motion of the hon. Member for Southwark, and have a second Board of Works, then they might leave to this Board the superintendence of the sewerage on the south side of the Thames. The reason that he wished this Bill to be referred to a Select Committee was, in order that evidence might be taken as to the practical working of the hon. Member's proposal, and in order that hon. Gentlemen might be made aware of the financial and engineering complications of the question of sewerage.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he thought it desirable that a measure of such importance should be considered in a Committee of the whole House, but, at the same time, he feared it would be impossible to make the House understand all the difficulties and complications of the Bill. He should wish the Committee of the whole House to deal with the constitutional principles involved in it, and that the clauses of detail should be referred to a Committee up-stairs.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, that, after the appeal made to him, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, the definition of the word "owner," in the Public Health Act was the person receiving for the time being the rack rents of the land. In hundreds of cases in the suburbs the "owner" of property, not occupying that property, had to pay the sewers rate, though by the Bill they would have no voice whatever in the appropriation of that rate.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he rose to move, as an Amendment, that the further consideration of the Bill should be deferred till the House had decided upon the principles of the Bill announced by the President of the Board of Health for the modification of the Act commonly known as Hobhouse's Act, which Act was proposed to be incorporated in the Metropolis Bill. He begged to disclaim the assertion that had been made, that he was opposed to local self-government, or that he wished to do away with any needful reform. The object of Hobhouse's Act was to enable such parishes as desired it to adopt an improved system for the election of their vestries and the management of their parish business. It was now proposed, for the first time, to impose upon vestries duties not only not identical with those they had hitherto been accustomed to perform, but also other duties of a perfectly novel character. The Bill before the House was called a local Bill, but the House must recollect that its extent ranged over twenty-five square miles, and included 3,000,000 of inhabitants, a population larger than that of the kingdom of Scotland, and bearing in a very material manner upon the interests of the Empire at large. The property of the district to which this measure applied amounted to not less than 13,000,000 l. 565
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : No.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I have no wish to throw any impediment in the way of those hon. Members who may wish to take the sense of the House upon the subject of the late negotiations. But it must be recollected that there are Supply, and two or three other matters which are very pressing. I should think, however, that it is in the power of any hon. Member who has an important Motion to bring forward so to arrange with other Gentlemen, who have Motions upon the
 561
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I can only state, Sir, in reply to the questions which have been addressed to me, that the Government have several measures of great importance that are now in progress through the House. For example, there is Supply, and there are also two or three Bills of pressing urgency. Besides, I think it is very unreasonable, as well as unusual, that the hon. Gentlemen who have given notices of Motions for days on which they have precedence should expect the Government to put off important public business for their accommodation. I am sure the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) will have no difficulty in finding a day on which, without disturbing the usual course of business, he may bring forward the Address of which he has given notice. As to the
 560
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that the object of the present Bill was one of great importance, and as they might by I possibility be visited by a recurrence of the calamitous disease of last year, he thought that no measure which would tend to prevent it ought to be neglected. The sum of money to be devoted to the house sewerage was a very small portion of that which the Commissioners were empowered to borrow for the arterial drainage; and, as there would be means of recovering it from the owners of houses, the Government were inclined favourably to view the application of the money under this Bill.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that, as he was the party practically responsible for this transaction, in so far as he had committed the Admiralty to what had taken place, he trusted he might be allowed to make some explanation on the subject. The hon. and gallant Member having altered the Motion of which he originally had given notice, and which contained charges against the Admiralty of having misappropriated public money, nevertheless repeated those charges in his speech. He was anxious, therefore, to explain the facts of the case, because, if the House thought that they had the real history of the case before them from the statement of the hon. and gallant Gentleman, they were greatly mistaken. Now, what were the real facts of the case? When he (Sir F. Baring) was at the Admiralty, considerable difficulty was felt in respect to the claims of different parties with reference to the screw propeller. According to the opinion of the Admiralty and its officers, the screw propeller used in Her Majesty's service was not the specific
 644 645 l. 646 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 647 bonâ fide Agamemnon Agamemnon's 648
 MR. KEATING  said, he wished to state the grounds on which he should vote in favour of the present Motion. He had not understood that the hon. and gallant Member (Captain Scobell) had imputed to the right hon. Baronet who had last addressed the House, or to any one connected with the Admiralty, anything like a charge of wilful misappropriation of the public money. Had such an imputation been made, he (Mr. Keating) could not assent to the Motion; but the case, as he understood it, was this—that there was used in Her Majesty's ships a screw propeller of a certain form, and that Parliament had voted a sum of money to recompense those who were interested in the patent or patents which might be infringed by the use of the screw propeller in Her Majesty's service. The Admiralty took this Vote of Parliament, and placed themselves in the situation of trustees of 20.000 l. l. 649 l. 650
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he must explain that his statement was that, when he entered into the agreement with Mr. Currie he was not aware of Captain Carpenter's money claim, nor were Sir Baldwin Walker and Mr. Lloyd; and he believed the records of the Admiralty did not contain any formal application.
 THE MARQUESS OF BLANDFORD  said, that in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to make better provision for the formation and endowment of separate and distinct parishes, he wished to point out that the measure was rendered necessary by an Act which was passed last Session to continue the existence of the Church Building Commissioners until July, 1856. The object of the Bill was, in the first place, to carry out the powers now vested in the Church Building Commissioners by means of the Act commonly known as Sir Robert Peel's Act, which empowered the Ecclesiastical Commissioners to constitute districts which had no churches at the time of such constitution. When churches were built in such districts they became new parishes, and were regulated by the general law of the land with respect to parishes. The number of these districts constituted under the Act was about 250. There were about eighteen Church Building Acts, and an attempt had been made about twenty years ago to consolidate them. Some of the districts were consolidated chapelries, others district parishes. There was a great
 661 l.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he must oppose the Motion. If spirits were delivered for consumption in Ireland, the whole of the duty would be payable in that country; but if removed from one bonded warehouse in Ireland to another in England, then the whole of the duty might be paid in England. He believed that the Bill as it stood was consistent with the object which the proviso of the hon. and gallant Member sought to accomplish.
 MR. GROGAN  said, that the only question was whether the words in clause A were in accordance with that object. He did not think they were.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, he understood the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir F. Baring) to say that no claim was sent in to the Admiralty by Captain Carpenter before the money was handed over to Mr. Currie. He had the authority of Captain Carpenter for saying that he did, previous to that time, lay before the Admiralty a memorial, setting forth that he was the inventor of the screw, and making a claim for compensation. He should vote for an inquiry, because he thought Captain Carpenter's claim could be tested in no other way; and it must be remembered that the testimony of that distinguished officer Admiral Sir Ceorge Cockburn, was in his favour. In his opinion, it was a misdirection of the money which had been voted by the House, to place it in the hands of a gentleman who was an interested party, with authority to appropriate it, and he therefore thought a case for inquiry had been made out.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that the provisions of the 6 & 7  Vict. Primâ facie
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that the hon. Gentleman had confined his observations solely to Ramsgate Harbour, and had left the Cinque Ports altogether out of view. He was sorry he could not assent to the Motion of the hon. Member for a Select Committee. The object of any Select Committee must be to inquire into facts, whereas with regard to Ramsgate, inquiry was altogether exhausted. There had been already four several inquiries into the state of that harbour, and his opinion was that they should now be prepared to deal with it. The harbour was maintained mainly by a toll levied upon the shipping passing up and down the Channel. These tolls produced a very large revenue, but in 1850 a reduction of them was made to the amount of 4,600 l. l. 635
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he was astonished to hear the hon. and learned Gentleman who spoke last repeat, after the explanations that had already been given to the contrary, the assertion that Mr. Currie was the person who acted as the judge upon the competing claims to the invention of the screw propeller. The claims of the parties were submitted for investigation to one of the most eminent engineers in this country, and were after-wards examined by the Surveyor of the Navy, when it was ultimately decided by the Admiralty that five individuals—some of whom had established their right in a court of law—were entitled to receive compensation for the use of their patent rights. All the eminent engineers in London had agreed to be bound by that decision; and, although the Privy Council might have declared that Mr. Lowe was not the original inventor of the screw, yet it also decided that his patent right had been more or less infringed. A more honourable man than Mr. Henry Currie did not exist, but that gentleman never adjudged the question who were the parties entitled to compensation, or what amounts they should respectively receive. The sums were apportioned by Mr. Carpmael, the patent agent. The House could not admit the plea which had been urged to the effect that Captain Carpenter belonged to a profession by no means remarkable for its wealth. The real question was, was he an inventor or not? And a Committee of that House was surely not a competent tribunal to decide the preliminary question whether or not he had a patent right. He had no claim against the public, the Admiralty, or private individuals, unless he had a valid patent right; and, if his right had been infringed, a court of law and not a Select Committee of that House could afford him his remedy. He thought, therefore,
 658
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he thought it would be a great disappointment to the House to be told that they were still at the stage when inquiry was necessary in the matter of passing tolls. In the case of Ramsgate, that statement was too ridiculous, for inquiry had been exhausted. First, there was the Committee of 1850, then the inquiry by Mr. Walker, and afterwards other inquiries by Captain Vetch, Sir John Rennie, and lastly by Sir William Cubitt, who was sent down by himself in conjunction with the right hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle, when First Lord of the Admiralty, and who reported that at the end of the present year it would be perfectly safe to abandon the passing toll altogether. In accordance with that Report, he had prepared a Bill for the abolition of this passing toll at Ramsgate,
 637
 MR. RICE  said, he wished to offer his testimony to the value of Mr. Smith's invention. A great deal had been stated as to this money not having been bestowed according to the intention of the public. He did not believe that the public had any intention in the matter, but that the Admiralty had proposed that this sum should be given as a recompense to those who were interested in the invention, and that this money was distributed in the best mode it could be. He thought it would be a very inconvenient precedent if they carried this matter before a Select Committee, and he should therefore vote against the Motion.
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said he regretted to state that he entertained a very different opinion to that expressed by the hon. and learned Member for Reading (Mr. Keating) who had given the weight of his authority in support of the Motion. The hon. and learned gentleman, however, had formed his opinion upon an imperfect view of the circumstances of the case,—probably upon the partial representations contained in the book published by Captain
 651 Archimedes Archimedes; Archimedes 652 653 scire facias 654 655 Agamemnon 656
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he had to move for a Committee of the whole House to consider the laws for securing the property of manufacturers of iron, steel, cutlery, edge tools, hardware, gold, silver and and silver plated, Britannia metal, German silver, copper and brass articles, and other metals, mother of pearl shell, tortoiseshell, bone, horn, ivory, leather, and wood, and also for securing the wages of the workmen engaged in such manufactures. His object was to introduce a Bill to extend the provisions of the 6 & 7  Vict.
 MR. HUDSON  said, he was obliged to the right hon. Gentleman for the way in which he had dealt with this question, and he regretted he had not remained in office to carry out his liberal principles and measures. He heard with regret the statement of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bouverie) that it was intended to continue passing tolls. He had hoped that the principle of passing tolls had passed away. He must contend that ships which passed Ramsgate harbour without receiving any benefit ought not to be compelled to pay any toll. He could tell the hon. Gentleman that his measure would be opposed by the shipping interest, and he had no doubt the hon. Gentleman, if he did not abandon his view on the subject, would sustain defeat on the obnoxious principle of passing tolls. He agreed that no inquiry
 638
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he rose pursuant to notice to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the circumstances under which compensation was granted to the patentees of the screw propeller, as used in Her Majesty's ships and vessels. He considered that this question concerned one of the most important inventions—saving the electric telegraph—that had been invented for many years. He would deal with the question in a manner as little personal as possible. He would attack nobody, for he was only demanding justice on behalf of an individual who had been unjustly treated by four consecutive Boards of Admiralty. A noble and learned Lord (Lord Lyndhurst) had already taken up this question in another place, and he was not a person to have done so unless he had been convinced that a great grievance existed. The question related to the screw propeller, used in the Royal Navy. So important did this invention seem to the Admiralty of the day that two votes of 10,000 l. 640 l. l. 641 Duke of Wellington Agamemnon Geyser 642 Agamemnon Agamemnon l. l. 643 l.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL , in reply, said, that the distribution of the money had been placed entirely under the control of Mr. Currie, and that Captain Carpenter's claim had never been examined previous to the distribution. Captain Carpenter had been designedly shut out, because the parties interested did not wish his claim to be referred to Mr. Carpmael. The House of Commons, as the holders of the public purse, had voted a sum of money to the inventors of the screw propeller, and he thought, therefore, that they ought to assent to the appointment of a Committee before which Mr. Smith, Captain Carpenter, or any other claimants of the reward might obtain a hearing.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just spoken, seemed to regret that his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Stamford (Sir F. Thesiger), had been concerned in a cause which had enabled him to become acquainted with all the details of the question now before the House, and he also quarrelled with his (Mr. Drummond's) hon. and learned Friend for having made a most proper arrangement with the counsel opposed to him, by which a lawsuit was terminated that had wasted the money of both their clients, and substantial justice was done to all parties. Mr. Currie was not interested in the matter one way or the other, but had simply undertaken to distribute the money voted by that House among those who had established a claim
 660
 MR. KERSHAW  seconded the Motion.
 MR. JAMES MACGREGOR  said, he should support the Motion. The steps proposed by the hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Board of Trade were not of sufficient scope to meet the question, which embraced not only Ramsgate, but the whole of the Cinque Ports. A reform in the administration of Dovor harbour was quite as much needed as in the administration of that of Ramsgate, for a large expenditure had been going on there for many years without the harbour being, comparatively speaking, much improved. The harbour of Sandwich had also a grievance, for it had been greatly injured by the works now going on at Dovor. He could not help thinking that a Report of a Committee on all the Cinque Ports would be of great use, and he should therefore support the Motion.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, the question that had to be considered was not whether Captain Carpenter was the original inventor of the screw propeller, but whether, supposing he were so, he had had an opportunity of substantiating his claims. Now, Mr. Currie never pretended that he had investigated Captain Carpenter's claims. That an inquiry was necessary was obvious from the fact that there had been an error in the distribution of the 20,000 l. 657 l. l.
 MR. MONTAGU CHAMBERS  said, he thought Captain Carpenter had perfect right to the patent of the screw-propeller, and the House had a right to see that a proper distribution was made of the money voted for the purpose of remunerating those who possessed patent rights. He could not avoid, however, expressing his surprise that Mr. Currie, the party selected for the distribution of 20,000 l. 659 l. l.
 MR. MACKINNON  said, he would not protract the discussion any longer, as he had obtained his wishes—namely, an assurance from the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bouveric) that he would bring forward a measure to do away eventually with these passing tolls. He would withdraw his Motion, relying as he did on the promise—the positive promise—of his hon. Friend.
 MR. MACKINNON : Sir, on the present occasion I feel myself bound in duty to come forward and move for a Committee, or obtain a promise that some steps will be taken to diminish or do away with the charge of tolls on ships, both British and foreign, passing the Channel on one side or the other of the Goodwin Sands. I do so in consequence of the directions of the Committee on Ramsgate Harbour, of which I was Chairman. d. d. 633 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. d. l. l. 634
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he was sorry that the hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Board of Trade had taken the part of defending the enormous and
 636
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, the elaborate character of the hon. and learned Gentleman's remarks showed the necessity for an inquiry. With regard to the disposal of the 20,000 l. scire facias l.
 MR. ATHERTON  said, that in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the laws relating to mortmain, he did not propose to interfere with the Law of Mortmain strictly so called, but merely to dispense with the restrictions with respect to the conveyance of land for charitable uses on full consideration, with the exception of that restriction which required the enrolment of the deed in Chancery within six months after its execution. With respect to deeds which had been already granted, but not on full consideration, he proposed to retain the restriction that they must be executed twelve months before the granter's death. He proposed that the other requirements of the Statute of George II. should be dispensed with, provided the deed was enrolled within six months of its execution. At present such a deed was void if it contained certain reservations; but he proposed that it should not be invalid in such cases provided the reservations were not such as tended to an undue alienation of land. He proposed also to extend the principle of Mr. Peto's Act, 13th & 14th  Vic.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he would not object to the introduction of the Bill. The subject was one well deserving of consideration; but of course he should reserve to himself liberty to deal
 662
 MR. LLOYD DAVIES  said, he thought the House would be perfectly unanimous upon one point, namely, that some change in the law was absolutely necessary; but the change that was really required was one of a very different character from that
 678 679 680
 MR. COWPER  said, he could not altogether concur with the views which the hon. Gentleman who proposed the Amendment
 681 682 683 684
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he would not have troubled the House if it had not been for the speech of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, which he had heard with deep regret, because, instead of advancing the settlement of the question, it had tended to throw it back for years, and to keep alive feelings of heart-burning and animosity in the country. During the discussion on the subject last year the noble Lord, now Colonial Minister, took a very different view from that which had just been taken by the First Lord of the Treasury, because, when his right hon. Friend the present President of the Board of Control (Mr. V. Smith), was urging on the Government the necessity for a settlement of the question, the noble Lord interrupted his right hon. Friend in the middle of his speech, and said, "We do propose to settle the question—we propose to settle it next Session." But the noble Lord at the head of the Government now said it was not the business of the Government to settle the question, and, by his speech, threw another difficulty in the way of its settlement. No doubt it was an open question, upon which Members of the Government might vote as they pleased, because no Member could be returned for a large town who was not opposed to church-rates. The noble Lord said he did not wish for momentary popularity. Now, he (Lord Seymour) complained that the Government had used this question, not for momentary, but for permanent popularity; they had used it on the hustings, and defeated it in that House. The noble Lord divided the rate into two parts. Let them not quarrel about such trifles as that; but, if they dealt at all with the subject, let them settle it manfully and at once. This measure was not supported, as it had been stated, in order to get rid of a charge upon the land, because, if it got rid of one charge, its immediate effect would be to throw another upon the land. A Bill on this subject had been laid upon the table in another place, and had, no doubt, been submitted to the Government by the head of the Church.
 692
 MR. FERGUSON  said, that, in moving the second reading of the Bill, he would explain the circumstances which had led to its introduction. The City of Carlisle, which contained a population of 30,000, was divided into four parishes, the dean and chapter were the lay impropriators of the tithes of these parishes, and derived a very large income from them, the dean about 1,600 l. l. l. s. d. l. l. s. l. s. d. l.
 MR. COWPER  said, he trusted the hon. Gentleman would not press the second reading of the Bill. The subject had been, by an Address of that House, referred to a Commission which was now sitting to inquire into ecclesiastical property. That Commission, he believed, would shortly present their Report, and it was natural to assume that they would recommend some mode of dealing with the canonries with which the present Bill purposed to interfere. He hoped, therefore, that the hon. Member would acquiesce in the Amendment which he moved that the Bill should be read a second time that day six months.
 MR. HOWARD  said, he thought a strong case was made out for this Bill, and did not believe the chapter of Carlisle had paid sufficient regard to the spiritual wants of the City. He must, however, except from this censure the dean, as he was aware of his experience in teaching and his zeal as a minister to do good in the city. The Bill was a very moderate one, and there were pressing reasons why it should pass.
 MR. HOWARD  said, he must explain that he had endeavoured to make an exception in favour of the dean, from the sense he entertained of the laudable efforts of that dignitary.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he should oppose the second reading of the Bill, as he considered it a direct attack on the entire system of cathedral institutions. The chapter of Carlisle possessed the great tithes of the town of Newcastle-on-Tyne, and the inhabitants of that town had quite as much claim on the funds as the people of Carlisle.
 MR. LUSHINGTON  said, that this subject had so often been debated that it was not necessary for him to go into the origin of these rates, as he thought it must be admitted that the Church had a legal right to them. This was one of the most ancient laws of England, and he was astonished that it had been allowed to remain so long in such an unsatisfactory state. It should have been settled immediately after the Revolution of 1688, when the Nonconformists were first recognised as a body. Twenty years ago the late Sir Robert Peel declared his opinion that the question ought to be settled within the year, but although frequent attempts had since been made at legislation, from that time down to the present the matter had been allowed to remain open. Last year the noble Lord the Member for the City of London (Lord John Russell) announced the intention of the Government to introduce a measure on the subject, but the Government had since failed to do so. Now, it was quite hopeless to think that the question could ever be settled while it remained in the hands of a private Member, and therefore he called upon the noble Lord to fulfil his promise. They had heard of a Bill introduced in the other House on this subject, and he thought that they ought to see whether it would not afford them an opportunity of settling it this Session. He admitted that this question had been most fertile in producing heart-burning and discord, and it therefore behaved the Government to come to some conclusion on it, and in this opinion he was strengthened by the late Chancellor of the Exchequer, who, last Session, said on this subject, "It is hardly possible to exaggerate the strength of the obligation incumbent on
 685
 MR. PACKE  said, that in rising to oppose the Motion, although he was not unconscious of his want of power satisfactorily to deal with the question in an address to the House, he relied upon the strength and upon the justice of the cause he had undertaken, which was no less than that of upholding the interests of the Church of England. He could in no way admit, as had been argued during the discussion on this question, that the Church of England ought to be in any respect considered as a mere sect in common with others. Before a Bill was brought in to abolish church-rates, one of two things
 674 675 676 677 "Let no person mistake the church-rate question for the Church question. The Church question is not yet mooted, but we give notice to all churchwardens that we shall not the least earnestly, as far as we are concerned, seek for the total separation of Church and State. It is neither the abolition of church-rates nor the exclusion of bishops from the peerage which will satisfy us. We require that the Church of England should be reduced to what she is—one of the sects."
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, he had no doubt it was the general wish of the House to proceed at once with the second reading of the important Bill for the abolition of church-rates. At the same time it would be a great sacrifice on his part entirely to let slip that opportunity of advancing his Bill for the education of pauper children one stage. The Bill was a very short one; there was no objection to its principle; and he might say, indeed, that
 664
 MR. E. BALL  said, he had heard with regret the statement just made by the noble Lord, because he could not help thinking that that statement would tend to add to the difficulties of a question already more than sufficiently difficult of solution. He thought the Dissenters had peculiar claims to the favourable consideration of the House in that case. When the provision for the payment of church-rates had originally been made, the people had all been of one religion—they had received the ministrations of the same clergy, and they had, therefore, been fairly called upon to contribute to the maintenance of the same religious edifices. He certainly was far from wishing to witness the destruction of our great churches; he should regret their destruction, if for no other reason, because he hoped that the dissenting form of worship might one day be celebrated in them. He admitted, too, that the Church of England afforded one great medium for the diffusion of morality
 691
 MR. LABOUCHERE  did not think that the conclusions arrived at by the hon. Member for Hertford (Mr. Cowper) tallied exactly with the arguments he had employed. The present Bill consisted of two parts; it first dealt with the Dissenters' grievance—it abolished church-rates; it next met that which, if left undealt with, would, as had been stated, become a churchman's grievance, and then went on to provide the machinery by which the voluntary contributions of churchmen should be made available to maintain the fabric of the Church. The hon. Member for Hertford agreed with the principle of the Bill, but he objected to the machinery. No doubt there was much to be objected to, but this could be remedied in Committee; and could such objections to the machinery of the Bill justify the hon. Member in voting against the second reading? He (Mr. Labouchere) hoped the House would not be led away by the hon. Gentleman, but would, by a decided majority, declare that the time was arrived when this question was not to be trifled with, but dealt with in a practical manner, and that the foundation and corner-stone of such alterations should be that the levying of church-rates on those who dissented
 686
 MR. BAINES  said, he hoped the House would agree to the proposition of the hon. Member for Malton. He was anxious that the Bill should be proceeded with, believing that it was calculated to do a great deal of good, and he would be happy to render his best assistance to the hon. Member for Malton, to whom the country was deeply indebted for introducing his measure for the education of pauper children. It was within his own knowledge that many boards of guardians, including some of the best—among others, that of the township of Manchester—had for years been anxious to possess the very powers which the present Bill proposed to confer upon them.
 MR. INGHAM  said, that if the House should agree to the second reading the Committee might be postponed for a fortnight, until the Cathedral Commissioners had made their Report.
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, he must contend that if they legislated upon the principle of this Bill for Carlisle they must be prepared to pass similar measures with respect to other cathedral cities. It could not be said, with any truth, that the dean and chapter of Carlisle had done little for the spiritual interests of the people under their charge, as he happened to know that no curate exerted himself more for the benefit of those under him than did the dean of Carlisle for the benefit of the inhabitants of that city.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he did not think it would be fair or reasonable to call upon the hon. Member for Malton to give up the advantage to which he was entitled, his Bill standing first among the Orders of the Day; but, on the other hand, he for one was willing to accede to the proposal which the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Sir W. Clay) had made.
 MR. ROBERT PHILLIMORE  said, he thought it an act of rashness to decide upon the principle of suspending canonries in an isolated case. The hon. Member for Carlisle (Mr. Ferguson) appeared to be against all canonries. He was against all idle canons and pluralist canons, but he was not against canons who devoted themselves to the regular ministrations of the cathedral and the spiritual instruction of the people. The hon. Member had pronounced what seemed to be a censure upon pew rents as a source of revenue in great towns, and he, therefore, thought the hon.
 697
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  said, he should support the Bill. The tithes were set apart for the spiritual instruction of the people, and a case of hardship had been made out in Carlisle which he thought justified the Bill.
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, he would appeal to the hon. Member for Malton (Mr. E. Denison) to allow the Church-Rate Abolition (No. 2) Bill, which stood next to the Bill for the Education of Pauper Children, to be taken before that Bill. In practical effect, the Church-Rate (No. 2) Bill was the same as that which he (Sir W. Clay) was about to withdraw, and the only reason for its introduction was to get rid of some errors which had crept into the first Bill.
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, that, in moving the second reading of this Bill, it would be his duty to state fully and clearly, however concisely, the scope, character, and objects of the measure, and the nature of the provisions by which those objects were sought to be attained. In one respect at least his task would be an easy one. In ordinary cases, when Members introduced a measure for the alteration of an existing law, they were expected, and justly, to state to the House the grounds upon which they rested the necessity of that alteration. From any such duty he was happily relieved, as partly from the frequent discussions which the question of church-rates had undergone, yet more, perhaps, from the progress of events, the debateable ground was much narrowed, and there was an almost entire unanimity of opinion as to
 665 666 667 668 669 Geo. 670 The Edinburgh Review 671 l. l. l. l. l. l. 672 l. ex uno disce omnes 673
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I certainly, Sir, agree entirely with those who have expressed an opinion that it is most desirable to have this question settled; but it is one thing to express a wish that a great question should be settled, and it is another thing, either to frame in one's own mind a mode by which a satisfactory settlement can be obtained, or to adopt at once any proposal that may come from any quarter professing to effect that settlement. That this is a question surrounded by great difficulties is proved by the statements made by both those who support and by those who oppose the Bill of my hon. Friend the Member for the Tower Hamlets, because we have heard recited the various attempts which for many years past have been made either by individuals or by Governments with a view to settling it in a manner that
 687 688 689 690
 MR. COWPER  said, the measure was undoubtedly an Amendment on the existing law relating to parish constables. It had been carefully framed, and had gone through the ordeal of a Select Committee; its provisions, he believed, were the same as those agreed to by a majority of that Committee. He, therefore, could not agree with what had been stated, that the Bill ought not to be read a second time, and he should be disposed to vote for it. At the same time he did not think that the Bill, if it came into operation, would altogether give satisfaction to all counties; but whatever was objectionable in its provisions might be modified in Committee.
 MR. MILES  wished the hon. Gentleman had attended to the suggestion of his right hon. Friend (Sir J. Trollope), as to the propriety of Government taking up the question and contributing to the support of the police of the country. It was the more incumbent on the Government to do so as they had, by abolishing transportation and by granting tickets of leave, doubtless increased the number of criminals in this country, and should, therefore, bear a portion at least, of the expense of instituting an efficient police. He thought the noble Lord at the head of the Government ought to take up this question and bring in a Bill for the general constabulary of the whole kingdom. He could assure the noble Lord that his experience as a magistrate sitting at quarter sessions had enabled him, much to his regret, to ascertain that crime, at least in the district in which he resided, was rather upon the increase than undergoing any diminution. In that particular locality the number of cases of undetected crime was especially on the advance. But the noble Lord might ask why, under these circumstances, not have recourse to the services of a body of rural police? His (Mr. Miles's) answer to that question would be, that the expenditure attendant upon the employment of rural police would
 707 d. d.
 MR. COWPER  said there were many objections to the provisions of the Bill, one of which was that it limited the amount of publicity. The Bill repealed the publicity now given, by requiring marriages to be announced to the board of guardians—in many cases, he admitted, a most unpleasant proceeding—but it did not provide a security that marriages about to take place should be made known so as to give opportunity for the interference of those who might be able to detect the impropriety or illegality of the marriage. The Bill provided that notice was to be given to the superintendent registrar, who, it was assumed, would make it public, but in this there was obviously no sufficient security. He was surprised at the fourth clause of the Bill, which declared that when two parties lived in separate districts it should he sufficient if notice were given in one district only. He could not see why the amount of publicity should be halved in that manner, it would remove a very obvious security. In licences a notice of seven days was now required. The Bill proposed to reduce the time to twenty-four hours, which he thought objectionable; on the whole it appeared to him that the objects the Bill sought to accomplish would be obtained at a considerable amount of risk, and he trusted the hon. Gentleman would not press the measure at the present moment.
 MR. LOWE  said, the great importance of the subject, and the novelty of it to many persons, as well as the mistaken course, as he thought, which the noble Lord had adopted in respect to this matter, must be his excuse for delaying the House a short time upon the first stage of the measure. When he before addressed the House upon a similar subject, he could only argue upon the title of this Bill; but since then he had had the advantage of seeing the Bill brought forward with respect to Victoria, which was  in pari materiâ 720 721 722 indicia 723 724 725 726 727
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I cannot claim the excuse which the hon. Gentleman has made for me—namely, that I come on this occasion entirely new to the subject, because it was my duty, in the year 1850, to propose and to discuss at great length, and very frequently, the provisions of the Bill (which afterwards became law) for the government of the Australian Colonies; and it is because I have become familiar with the clauses of that Act, and have seen what the Colonies have done in respect of those provisions, that I now ask the House to consent at least to the introduction of a Bill which gives force and validity to one of the constitutions which have been enacted in Australia. What Parliament did in 1850 was this:—it passed a Bill enacting certain constitutions for New South Wales, and for the other colonies which had been separated from it, and giving them power to make such laws for their own welfare as should not be repugnant to the laws of England. The 32nd clause went on to confer on those colonies authority to alter their constitutions, and to establish—in lieu of a single Legislative Council, partly nominative and partly elective—a Legislative Council and a House of Assembly, or of representatives; and, in short, so to modify their organic constitution as they might think fit. Now, New South Wales having had, besides this legislative sanction, an intimation from a right hon. Gentleman not now present, acting as Secretary of State, that the Crown would receive with satisfaction a Bill by which a Legislative Council and an Assembly should be created, and by which the Legislative Council should be nominative, the hon. Gentleman proposes to say to the colony, "Now that you have exercised all these powers, and, acting likewise upon our intimation, have adopted a constitution for yourselves, we will set your constitution entirely aside—we will consider it as though it had never been adopted at all, and appoint a Committee of the House of Commons to frame a totally new constitution for New South Wales." I do submit, Sir, that this course would not be a just one towards the colony. Besides this, there are important powers which, if those Acts pass which have now been some ten months before the Government of this country, will give New South
 728 729 730 731 732
 MR. GAVAN DUFFY  said, that he concurred in the objections taken to the principles of the Bill by the hon. and learned Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe); and he did not think the noble Lord, in replying to them, had stated them quite fairly. The noble Lord declared the
 733
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he had omitted to state that he proposed to give
 734
 MR. DUFFY  said, he was speaking at a great disadvantage before he had seen the proposed measure of the noble Lord; he was referring to the Bill as it had been sent from the Colony. They ought to remember that they were legislating not only for the half million of people now in the colony, but also for the constant flow of population from this country, and they should take care not to legislate in such a manner as to check that flow, and to deprive the colony of the services of perhaps better men than it now contained. In Canada they had substituted an elected for a nominated Upper Chamber; at the Cape the Upper House was elective; and in New Zealand the Upper Chamber was about to become elective. Why should they establish in this colony the very thing which they had destroyed elsewhere? Another objection to the Bill was, that, although the large mass of the population thought the House of Assembly was elected upon an unfair basis, and with an unfair distribution of the representatives, the present arrangement was rendered permanent, and could only be got rid of by two-thirds of its Members committing political suicide. In truth, it was in no sense the Bill of the colonists; the elected Members, with a few notable exceptions, were taken from a class with whom the people were at war; and the official Members, in voting for an Upper House of nominees, acted under the impulse of the Colonial Office. In this sense it was less the Bill of the colonists than that of the right hon. Baronot the Member for Droitwich; and even the elected Members, a majority of whom had supported it, had voted for it in the expectation that they would be nominated to the Upper House. Men of intrigue got into the present Legislature who would never find their way into a new one created wholly by popular suffrage. The noble Lord said it was very hard to set aside the wishes of the colonists, but from the petitions presented to Parliament, they were decidedly opposed to a nominated Upper House. He had analysed those petitions, which were very numerous, and, taking the number of signatures, he found 12,152 against the Bill, 228 in favour of it, and forty-eight, out of a population of nearly 500,000, in favour of a half and half House, partially nominated and partially elected. The noble Lord found it difficult to decide what to do under the circumstances.
 735
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that the only reason assigned by the noble Lord for this Bill was that it was passed by the elected chamber; but the feeling of the people was clearly against it. What should be done was to leave the colonists to choose their own form of government. If they did not do that it would lead to continued trouble and difficulty, and final separation from this country. He would recommend to the noble Lord to send back the Bill to the colony as suggested by the hon. Gentleman opposite.
 MR. J. BALL  said, that it was quite evident from what had already been said in the discussion that there was great inconvenience in debating a Bill which was not yet laid on the table of the House. He had every reason to believe that no excitement existed in the colony on the subject of the Bill; it was easy for an active party to get up petitions, but the number of signatures affixed to those
 736
 MR. LOCKE KING  expressed his readiness to accede to the suggestions of the hon. and learned Gentleman, with the view of amending the clauses to which he had referred. He thought the abolition of the existing customs would place heirs-at-law in a much more favourable position than they held at present.
 MR. G. H. CAVENDISH  supported the Bill.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  thought that his noble Friend was quite justified, after the experiment made last year, and the great indisposition that was then felt to assent to his Bill, in declining to propose any measure this year. He (Lord J. Russell) must, however, say that he felt much disappointment at the present state of this question. When he introduced the County Constabulary Bill, he was in hopes that it would have been effectual, and that, as in the counties referred to by the right hon. Baronet, its benefits would have been so apparent, that before this time all the counties in England would have adopted its
 713
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  thought that, omitting all question of Churchman or Dissenter, if they enacted a law by which the publicity of marriage was taken away, very great evils would ensue. The hon. gentleman was fairly entitled to press a Bill by which the declaration now required to be made before a court of guardians should be done away with, and it was very natural that Dissenters should feel that
 717
 MR. DUNLOP  thought that the hon. Gentleman had, on the whole, done wisely in taking that course, but he regretted that the objection had been made. The Scotch law was much more accordant with justice than the English; and he was sorry that it had not been adopted. He had himself passed a Bill through the House which assimilated the Scotch law with that of England, except upon this point; but that he could not prevail on himself to give up.
 MR. PACKE , speaking for the county of Leicester, remarked that the rural police had been adopted in that county, that the expense was by no means heavy, and that it was cheerfully borne by the ratepayers. The adoption of that force in Leicestershire had completely answered the purpose, and the more serious crimes of horse, sheep, and cattle stealing, which used to be very
 714
 MR. PACKE  concurred in the recommendation of the noble Lord, and hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would withdraw his Bill, in order that the whole subject might be referred to a Select Committee. He hoped, too, that that Committee would have power to call for persons, papers, and records; for this was altogether so novel a proposition in our criminal jurisdiction that he was quite sure it could not be fairly considered without the fullest inquiry beforehand.
 MR. RICE  said, he could not agree with the opinion which his hon. Friend had of parish constables, and should greatly prefer the establishment of a new system to the propping up of an old one that was worn out and generally condemned. He must make an observation with respect to the heavy tax which the office of parish constable laid upon the persons who were called upon to perform it. They were usually small farmers, tradesmen, carpenters, blacksmiths, and others of a similar class. Their time
 705
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  would take the liberty of seconding the proposal of the noble Lord to postpone the second reading of the Bill till after the receipt of a Report from a Select Committee to be appointed to consider the whole subject. The subject was one of very great and serious importance; and the Commissioners appointed to consider the state of the criminal law had expressed their opinion that the establishment of a public prosecutor would necessarily introduce great changes in the criminal law, and should not be consented to without the greatest caution and consideration. When it was considered that such a measure would probably be followed by an alteration of the law as to the system of grand juries, that it might lead to the appointment of stipendiary magistrates, that it might render unnecessary the existence of clerks of assizes and clerks of the peace, that it might involve a greater jurisdiction in magistrates and a greater power of preventing cases going to trial—when all these circumstances were taken into consideration, it would be obvious that a most careful examination was necessary, before the House adopted
 702
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  suggested that some inconvenience would be occasioned if the Bill came into operation immediately upon its passing. He thought its operation should be delayed for, say a period of three months, in order that persons who had made dispositions of their property depending on the existing local customs might be enabled, if they thought fit, to alter the distribution of their estates.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he would assent to the proposition of the noble Lord, provided it was distinctly understood that it was the subject and not the Bill that was referred to the Select Committee. The Bill was liable to insuperable objections, seeking as it did to effect a radical change in the constitutional principle upon which criminal prosecutions were conducted. A responsible public prosecutor alredy existed, the Attorney General having, theoretically, the powers of such an officer, and it was open to him to a great extent to convert the theory into practice. The law on this subject was identical in England and Ireland, the Attorney General having authority to conduct any prosecution himself, or to employ a barrister to do so, where the general tranquillity of the country or the prerogative of the Crown was concerned; and it had unfortunately happened that in Ireland many cases partaking of an insurrectionary character had occurred which had called for the frequent intervention of the Attorney General. He thought, however, that to take the prosecutions in England out of the hands of the magistrates, as the Bill proposed to do, and as was done in Ireland, was not at all necessary, and he should be sorry to see it done.
 MR. HEYWOOD  hoped the House would allow the Bill to go into committee  pro forma
 MR. CHEETHAM  explained that the object of the Bill was not to interfere with
 716
 MR. CHEETHAM  having expressed his acknowledgments to the House for the spirit in which the measure had been received,
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he concurred in what the noble Lord had said as to referring the whole question with which this Bill dealt to a Select Committee; and he was willing, therefore, that the second reading should be deferred for a month or six weeks.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  wished to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government whether, as the Attorney General, who had given notice of a Motion to refer this subject to a Select Committee, was unable to attend that night, he would not, out of compassion, give him a Government night for the discussion of the measure?
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  would ask the House in that case to listen to the reasons he had for introducing the Bill; it was because abuses in the administration of criminal justice were of paramount importance, and because many of them must be attributed directly and immediately to the want of public prosecutors. He asked the House to declare its opinion that the most exalted functions of the Crown, and the most sacred rights of the subject, should not be left to the discretion of attorneys and policemen, but that the means of enforcing public justice should belong to an influence more august and commanding. Whatever varying boundaries might in other matters be allotted, according to the varying opinions of individuals, to the function of the Government, there could be but one opinion that it was the duty of Government to provide for the pure and exact administration of justice, where the lives and liberties of the subject were at stake. When the law, by its indirect operation, gave an advantage to the rich over the poor, extending more aid to the man who could put it in Motion than to him who could not, precisely to that extent it established a sense of injustice, and produced a mischievous effect upon the moral sentiments of the people. In the present administration of the law frequent instances must necessarily occur where such was the case; because the law threw upon the injured party the whole responsibility of bringing the criminal to justice, in spite of its own theory and language, according to which every offence was crime against the state. Such a state of things was unwise, preposterous, indecent, and without any parallel in any legislation, ancient or modern. It gave cause to scandals and evils to which it was astonishing that we submitted. When, from the reluctance of the party injured to encounter the labour and expense of a prosecution, a ruffian, who had injured a defenceless woman or a helpless child, was allowed to escape with impunity, all the objects for which society ought to be supported were overthrown. The certainty of punishment was the great barrier against offences; but when, in addition to the uncertainty of all earthly things, there was added the uncertainty arising from the criminal apathy of the law, which did not impose upon
 699
 MR. HENLEY  said, that he was not altogether satisfied that the evidence which they possessed with reference to the evils of the ticket-of-leave system in this country was such as to sanction the alarm felt upon that head by some hon. Members; nor was there any decisive evidence that the state of the counties which had adopted the provisions of the Rural Police Act had been such as to inspire all the rest with a desire to try the experiment. The applications for the extension of the rural police force in the county, referred to by his right hon. Friend the Member for Droitwich, seemed to him rather an argument that the good as yet effected was not so very great. The difficulty of the question seemed to be this—have what rural police they would, from the large area of the ground to be traversed, they could not dispense with the local constabulary—it was a delusion to suppose that if you had a rural police you could get rid of the parish constable. The real fact was, that the condition of the counties in England differed so much, that what was absolutely wanted in one was not at all required in another. He thought that it would be better not to interfere with the present law, but to leave it to the counties to decide for themselves whether they would have an additional police force or not.
 MR. HENLEY  asked if the Bill had the approval of the Government? It would completely alter the distribution of the personal property of intestates, and he hardly thought it safe to proceed with a measure of so sweeping a character unless it had received the sanction and approval of the law officers of the Crown.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that although this was called a Dissenters' Marriages Bill, it very materially affected the marriages of Church of England people, and that it would encourage clandestine marriages to a very great extent. It was a great grievance to many clergymen of the Church of England that persons who got certificates came to them and insisted on having their
 715
 MR. NAPIER  considered that it was advisable, whenever it could be done, to have uniformity of legislation for the United Kingdom, and asked whether it was intended that the Bill should extend to Ireland?
 MR. MONTAGU CHAMBERS  observed that this Bill was most admirably drawn, presenting a view of the state of
 719
 MR. MALINS  said, his hon. Friend (Mr. L. King) proposed to abolish the customs of London and York, which established a different distribution of the estates of freemen of the city of London and persons residing in the city of York from that which applied in other parts of the kingdom. He (Mr. Malins) agreed in the desirability of abolishing customs that interfered with the general law of the land, and he thought that that part of the Bill which related to advancements made to a child by a father, and advancements made by a mother, was also unobjectionable. He was not disposed to dissent from the principle of the Bill, but he considered that some of its details, affecting the rights of heirs-at-law, were open to objection.
 MR. COLLIER  said, it appeared to him that the Bill was intended to secure three objects—first to abolish certain peculiar customs; second, to place the children who had lost their mothers on a footing with those who had lost their fathers. Those two objects he thought beneficial. But there was a third object in which he could not agree, namely, the distribution, making all the children equal to the heir.
 718
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  observed that the opposition to the proposed Bill appeared to proceed almost entirely from Members representing counties where the Rural Police Act had been adopted. He could only say that in Berkshire the question of introducing the rural police force had been frequently canvassed, and that upon every occasion it had been rejected on account mainly of the heavy expense which it would entail upon the county. It was as much the duty of the Government to prevent crime as to punish it. They had undertaken to pay the expenses of prosecuting criminals both at the assizes and the sessions, and he thought that they ought to pay for, or at least to contribute towards the expenses, out of the finances of the State, of the maintenance of a force whose chief functions would be to prevent crime. But be that as it might, he could not see why the real property of the country should be charged with the whole expense of preventing crime, more particularly since the great majority of offences were against personal rather than against real property. He thought that the Bill was a step in the right direction, and, in the absence of a more general measure he should vote for the second reading.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the more they examined the Bill the more they would find that it was drawn to encourage clandestine marriages to a very great extent. The Bill took away the notice from the only place where it at present existed, but substituted no other which would secure equal publicity. The second clause would enable two minors to make an oath or declaration that there was no impediment to their union, that they had resided fifteen days in a particular place, and that the consent of those persons whose consent is required had been obtained. It would open a very wide door to perjury. Another clause took away the publicity which was properly required from members of the Church of England; while another (the 14th) provided that after any marriages by licence should be solemnised, it would not be necessary to have any proof of the validity of the marriage beyond the production of the licence—that no evidence should be given in opposition. That was contrary to all the laws and the constitution of this country.
 MR. DEEDES  replied, and said that if the Government would state their intention of bringing forward a measure on the subject, he would at once withdraw the present Bill.
 MR. DEEDES,  in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, that he had introduced a similar measure in 1853, which had been referred to a Select Committee. His reason for wishing to amend the law at that time was, that, as the law then and now stood, counties had a permissive power of adopting, if they pleased, the provisions of the Rural Police Act, but
 703 704
 MR. W. EWART  said, he went quite along with his hon. and learned Friend in his views upon this subject; indeed, he thought the necessity for legislation was so evident that nothing could be said against the principle of the Bill. He considered that
 700
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  observed, that the noble Lord complained that the hon. Member for Somersetshire made two unfounded charges, and in answer to the first he had stated that the Government at home had not originated the abolition of transportation. It was perfectly true that it was Lord Derby's Government which did away with that system, but the noble Lord had correctly stated the ground for the proceeding—namely, the strong indisposition of the Colonies to receive convicts. But he (Sir J. Pakington) did not think the noble Lord had been equally successful in answering the second complaint made by his hon. Friend, that the Government had not brought in a Bill on this subject. The answer of the noble Lord amounted to nothing more than this, that he had brought a measure forward last year which was not successful. The fact was, the noble Lord had never tried it; he never brought that Bill to a second reading and never tested the feeling of the House upon the subject. At the commencement of the Session referred to, a question was put to the noble Lord, he being then Home Secretary, as to whether he was prepared to deal with the police question; and his answer was very similar to that which he gave the House yesterday upon the subject of church-rates. The noble Lord said the question was too difficult for Government to deal with. But it was the duty of Government to deal with difficult questions. In his (Sir J. Pakington's) opinion, no Government ought to shrink from dealing with a question which was in so unsatisfactory a state as the county police question. It was incumbent upon them to face the difficulties, whatever they might be, more particularly as the whole aspect of the matter had been changed by the cessation of transportation and the adoption of a new system of secondary punishment in this country. Although it was not a Government with which the noble Lord was connected which did away with transportation, it was the noble Lord himself who tried the dangerous experiment of turning convicts loose on the country. Whether that were a wise one or not he (Sir J. Pakington) would not venture to say, as he did not wish to condemn it prematurely;
 712
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  thought it objectionable that, while the Rural Police Act was permissive, this Bill, by its second clause, should be made compulsory. He admitted that the measure would be of great service in counties where there was no police, as it would enable the justices to pay the village constables sufficient salaries; and he had always been of opinion that, if they were properly paid, efficient men could be found in every parish to discharge the duties. He was happy to say that in the rural districts, owing to the improved condition of the people, crime sensibly diminished, and that the offences were of a trifling character committed chiefly by tramps and vagrants and not by residents. In the district of the county in which he acted as a magistrate, they had a gaol built to accommodate seventy-six persons, and at the present moment the number of inmates was less than thirty. It was not, therefore, matter of surprise that the magistrates were exceedingly unwilling to impose the burden of a rural police. A large portion of the expense of prosecutions was now paid by the Treasury, enormous sums were annually voted for the constabulary in Ireland and the Dublin police, and there was a general tendency to take the management of gaols, police, and all matters connected with jurisprudence out of the hands of the local authorities, and centralise it in the Government. The whole of the police Acts pointed to
 706
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  was favourably disposed towards the object of the Bill, but the Bill contained some provisions which were quite unnecessary to attain it, and which might injuriously affect all classes, Churchmen as well as Dissenters, and hoped the hon. Gentleman would adopt the suggestion made to him.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the hon. Member who had just sat down had brought two very unfounded charges against him. First, the hon. Member asserted that it was owing to Her Majesty's Government that the punishment of transportation had ceased, and that, as a consequence, crime had increased; and in the next place the hon. Gentleman said, that the Government had not introduced any measure on the subject of a rural police. Now, to the first charge he begged to make answer, that it was perfectly well known that the cessation of transportation was not the result of a deliberate determination of the British Government here—on the contrary, the British Government very reluctantly submitted to a necessity imposed upon them by the decisions of the Colonies abroad. It was because those prosperous and improving communities, feeling that their civilisation and character were injured by a perpetual inflow of criminals from this country, resolved that they would not have any further increase to their population by the transportation of criminals from the mother country. It was simply in deference to the strong remonstrances, as well as to the decisions of our thriving Colonies, that the system of transportation was abandoned. Therefore, as far as that charge went, Her Majesty's Government were perfectly free from the origination of that decision which the hon. Gentleman had imputed to them. At the same time, they were quite aware that great inconvenience was likely to arise from the cessation of transportation to the Colonies, and that the question would have to be met as to what was to be done with those persons who hitherto, after having
 708 709 710 711
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, there could be no doubt the subject was one of very deep importance, not only to the personal interests of the community at large, but as involving also the great question of public morality and of the discontinuance of crime. At the same time, the proposal to establish a public prosecutor was one on which it was well known that there existed great diversity of opinion. The example of Scotland an Ireland might be quoted in favour of such a measure; but there were grounds upon which it might be doubted whether that which succeeded in those countries would be equally applicable to the larger area of England, and the more numerous and complicated transactions which came before English courts of justice. At the same time, the House, he thought, would not be prepared either to deny the principle of his hon. Friend's Bill or to adopt at once the arrangement he proposed. It was the intention of the Attorney General, had he been present, if the House chose to allow the Bill to be read a second time, to propose the postponement of further procedure upon it, and that a Select Committee should be appointed to inquire into and examine the subject to which the Bill related. It was not the Bill which it was proposed to refer, but the subject; it was obvious that the reference of the Bill merely would be too narrow for the accomplishment of the object in view. The subject was well worth the consideration of Parliament. No doubt, the appointment of a public prosecutor, if the details of such a measure could be so arranged as to avoid giving rise to any new inconveniences would be a great advantage. Yet, if, on the one hand, those who, from their position in life, were too poor, or from the want of information, too ignorant, successfully to prosecute a wrong before a court of justice—if such persons would derive great benefit from the existence of a public prosecutor, and if vexatious proceedings would be to a great extent stopped, yet, on the other hand, it was obvious that a great responsibility and a great discretion must be vested in such a public officer, and that he must operate through a great variety of private agencies, for he could not in his own person conduct all those prosecutions, or even himself decide
 701
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that as his hon. and learned Friend was unable
 698
 MR. BECKETT  brought up the Report of the Select Committee to whom this Bill had been referred.
 MR. BECKETT  stated that the Committee had bound the London and South Western Company to apply to Parliament for power to construct a line either between Dorchester and Exeter, or between Yeovil and Exeter, in conformity with the pledge given by the company in 1852, under the penalty of having their dividends stopped until it was shown by the certificate of the Board of Trade that their failure to obtain an Act for that purpose had been occasioned by no neglect of their own.
 SIR RICHARD BULKELEY  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty, whether he would lay upon the table of the House (with as little delay as possible) a more detailed statement of the intentions of Government with regard to the works required in the new harbour of Holyhead: Firstly, To what part of the works the sum of 120,000 l.
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, he hoped the House would allow him to do justice, in a few words, to the memory of a gallant officer. The hon. Member for Aylesbury, as a Member of Parliament, claimed to be a judge of the qualifications of naval officers to command in responsible situations such as that which Captain Christie had filled. He (Admiral Berkeley) had, not only in common with that hon. Member, the character of a Member of Parliament, and an Englishman, but he had also the character of a man who had served his country in the naval profession for a great number of years, and might be allowed, therefore, to be as good a judge of the qualifications of naval officers as the hon. Member for Aylesbury. The right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) had taken the responsibility of the appointment of Captain Christie on himself—as he presided over the Board he could have put his  veto 785
 MR. HARCOURT VERNON  said, that he had that day had a conversation with a brother of his, an officer in the Artillery, who had some reputation in his corps for scientific pursuits, and he stated to him that no one had, for many years, done so much for or rendered such important service to his, the Ordnance, department as the hon. Gentleman who now held the office of clerk, who had promoted scientific institutions by every means in his power.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished to know what was the requisite test of efficiency for the artillery service—what were the necessary qualifications, and on what ground the selections were made?
 THE EARL OF DALKEITH  said, he should support the Amendment, for the Bill was strongly objected to by the landed proprietors of Scotland, chiefly on the ground that it would destroy a system which had proved itself highly beneficial during a period of centuries. He opposed the measure, not from any party or political motives, but because he was convinced that it would not be for the advantage of the country, and that it would not promote the cause of education so much as its friends believed it would. The landed proprietors of Scotland were not opposed to education, but on the contrary would give their best support to any scheme that would in a proper way effect that object. They objected, however, to the overthrow of the present well-tried system, and they were opposed to a plan which excluded religious teaching from the schools. He thought that the present was a good system, though he considered that it might be rendered more efficient; but if they separated these schools from the Church, it could not be expected that the ministers of religion would give up their time, and pay the same attention as heretofore to the course of instruction. He thought that if the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate were disposed to make some concessions, he would find hon. Members, now opposed to this Bill, ready to go hand and hand with him in his endeavours to extend the system of education.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, it was quite clear that the object of the hon. Member for Elginshire, in proposing to divide the Bill into two parts, was to defeat it.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, he was glad to have the admission of the hon. Gentleman that some change was necessary, but could not understand how, after that admission, he should have taken such a prominent part in opposing the second reading of the Bill. An attempt was made to draw a line of distinction between education in towns and education in the rural districts. Now, he trusted his right hon. and learned Friend who had introduced the measure would not consent to any such separation, but would make the Bill a general one. It was said the people of Scotland were generally well educated. But that was by no means the case. In the last Report of the inspectors of prisons in Scotland, published in the present year, he found that, in the much-praised county of Elgin, the number of male prisoners who could not read was thirty, and of females thirteen. There were seventy-five
 796 797 798
 LORD ELCHO  said, that, notwithstanding what had been alleged to the contrary, he must maintain that an educational measure was requisite for Scotland, and would be content to rest the proof of that propo-
 817 bonâ fide 818 819 "Whereas," it said, "instruction in the principles of religious knowledge and the reading of the Holy Scriptures, as heretofore in use in the parochial and other schools in Scotland, is consonant to the opinions and religious profession of the great body of the people."
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, the hon. Member fur Dundalk, who had just sat down, requested, on behalf of his co-religionists, that they might be left alone; and what
 802 803 804 805 806 807 808 "That in consequence of the returns being defective, the proportions for Scotland, as well as those for the counties, must be received as understatements." 809 l. l. l. l. s. d. s. d. s. d. 810 l. l. l. l. 811 s. s. s. d. s. 812 813 814 "That Scotland was inferior to most parts of Europe in fertility of its soil, or in the aid which a genial climate gave for bringing the kindly productions of the earth to maturity; but that country, poor as it is, has taken a place among the nations second to no other, and even among Englishmen, Scotchmen are not found to fall behind in any gift, in the capacity for any walk and any function of life. It was not so in former times. If we go back three or four hundred years, they were then a nation in the rear of all Europe. They are now in front, and in the van. If it is asked, what is the reason for this great, this astonishing change in their relative position?—I believe the reason is one great advantage which they have now enjoyed for more than two centuries, in a degree far beyond any other country, far beyond England—the advantage which consists in every labouring man in Scotland having had the means of sending his children to a school where they would receive the benefits and the blessings of education. And the consequence of that has been, that there is an appreciation of those blessings among the people of Scotland, continually growing with the enjoyment of them." 815 "There are some points in which the schools of Scotland are very remarkable. In the thoroughness with which they teach the intellectual part of reading, they furnish a model worthy of being copied by the world." 816 l. l. l. l. l.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he would appeal to the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Hadfield) to continue his remarks, and to withdraw his Motion for the adjournment of the House.
 LORD NAAS  said, he wished to know whether the new pier would be sufficiently
 768
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he must complain of the motives imputed to the opponents of the Bill by the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate and his supporters. They had represented them as indifferent to education, and only desirous to uphold the Church of Scotland. He was not averse to such parts of the Bill as would extend education, but he objected to other parts of it which took away the securities for the religious character of the teachers and the taught. It was on this ground that he objected to the Bill, and the Committee of the Free Church of Scotland had declared this to be a vital question—the religious element of the existing system of education being all important. The right hon. and learned Lord Advocate, last Session, admitted that securities for religious instruction were important and requisite, and stated that he intended to
 800
 MR. LAYARD : I really, Sir, feel ashamed, at a moment like this, when great interests are at stake, and when the excitement of the country in regard of this war is at its pitch, on account of what has taken place in the East, that this House should be taken up with questions of this kind, involving mere personal matters. I ask hon. Gentlemen, and perhaps I should say one hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite, whether it is intended to renew tonight the unseemly scene which took place the other night? [Oh, oh!] Sir, these hon. Gentlemen are bringing upon this House great discredit. There is a feeling gaining ground in this country—[ Cries of 772 (The Morning Herald) "At its head was Captain Christie, a gentleman about seventy years of age, whose health was so impaired that he could not leave his ship after nightfall without getting a catarrh, and who was often five or six days without being able to land at Balaklava." The Times "Who is at the head of the transports at Balaklava? Captain Christie, an old gentleman upwards of seventy years of age; a gallant gentleman, no doubt, but he cannot leave his ship after dark for fear of catarrh, which might endanger his existence. I know that he is often five or six days without being able to land at Balaklava. Are you surprised, then, that Balaklava harbour should be in the state it was? Agamemnon 773 "If your speech has been correctly reported, I have to inform you that you have stated what is contrary to fact, and have thereby done what you can to injure an absent man." "9, Little Ryder-street, April 17, 1855. "Sir—I have to acknowledge the receipt of your note, dated Balaklava, 26th March. I had already received a communication from your brother on the subject of your age. Had that communication been worded in a becoming manner, I should at once have acknowledged my error in the House of Commons; but, as it was not so
 774 "With regard to your management of the harbour and the shipping in it, that is now the subject of Parliamentary inquiry, and I have no doubt that if you will inform Mr. Roebuck of your arrival in England, he will summon you before the committee, and you will then have an opportunity of clearing yourself from any imputation that may have been thrown upon you.
 MR. COWAN  said, that the objection to this Bill was based upon religious grounds; but the school system which at present existed in the large towns of Scotland, and which it was proposed to extend to the rural districts, did not reject the elements of religious instruction. He thought Scotch Members had most reason to lament the effects of the present system in the rural districts of Scotland. He wished the system of education pursued throughout the country was as efficient as it was in the city which he had the honour to represent. Some hon. Gentleman had alluded to the way in which the educational system now in Scotland worked in the rural districts, and spoke in high terms of its success. He would make a proposal to those hon. Gentlemen. He believed the noble Lord at the head of the Government was about to give them a week's holiday. Now he (Mr. Cowan) for one, had no objection to spend that week (if some of those hon. Gentlemen who thought
 792 793
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, he must beg to explain that his intention was to preserve the existing system in parochial schools in one Bill, and in the other to facilitate the formation of additional schools on a principle more adapted to the peculiar circumstances of the towns and rural districts.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the depth of water at the landing pier would be from twenty-nine to thirty-five feet at low water, the area of the harbour 267 acres; and the projected roadstead 350 acres—in all 617 acres for the harbour and roadstead.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he could not lay before the House any more detailed statement with regard to the works at Holyhead than was conveyed in the Miscellaneous Estimates of the year. He might state generally that, by lengthening the northern breakwater, a sheltered roadstead would be afforded to many vessels, by which relief would be given to the harbour now very much crowded. The sum voted this year would be applied principally to laying the foundation and carrying out the works of the breakwater as rapidly as possible; this being the groundwork of all future improvements. It was also proposed that a landing place should be constructed in the inner part of the northern breakwater, to which a communication would be opened from the railroad so as to enable the passengers to be carried on board at once without walking from the carriages. All the works, he might add, would be constructed according to prepared plans and specifications.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that the only official knowledge which the Government had of the circumstances referred to by the hon. Gentleman was derived from the fact that, when a Judge was unable to go circuit a substitute had to be provided, and his salary paid for out of the Consolidated Fund. To the latter part of the question he was unable to give any answer. He could only state that the circumstances had been brought under the notice of the Government, and that they were still under consideration.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he would take that in consideration also.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he understood the question of the hon. Gentleman to refer rather to the system which was pursued in those trials than to the particular trial to which he had alluded. On that occasion, the circumstances that occurred were pre-
 765
 MR. FRENCH  said, he rose to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government on the subject of the plans and proposals of the Earl of Dundonald, for destroying the Russian fortresses. He had twice already put questions to the noble Lord on the same subject, and although the replies were courteous they were certainly not by any means satisfactory. The noble Lord had stated that a commission of scientific gentlemen had been appointed, consisting of Professors Faraday, Playfair, and Graham. He believed he might assert, without fear of contradiction, that no meeting of those gentlemen had taken place, and as Professor Playfair was now in Paris, it was impossible that there could be one for some time. He could state, on authority, that no call had yet been made on the Earl of Dundonald to explain the alleged or supposed difficulty of carrying his plans into execution. Now he wished to state to the House and the country what the proposal of the noble Earl was. The House was aware that the period during which operations could take place in the Baltic was very short; it was certainly not more than three months. The noble Earl was prepared by the end of June, if his plans were adopted and his services were accepted, without fee or reward for the carrying them into execution, to demolish every Russian fortress in the Baltic—and that, too, at an expense to this country of less than 200,000 l.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that he could not agree with the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate, that it would be a good day for Scotland when this Bill passed. Letters, which he received every day from that country, informed him that there were very many dissentients to the proposed measure, and that the people were becoming more and more convinced of its impolicy. He denied that the majority of the people of Scotland were in favour of this Bill; there was a large body in Scotland opposed to it. [Oh, oh!] He would be heard for the short time that he was anxious to address the House. [ Cries of 824 Cries of
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he hoped the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate would consider in the meantime whether, after the division just taken, he would proceed with the Bill at all. He felt confident that the people of Scotland would, if time allowed, express such an opinion as would render it impossible to go on with the measure.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he called upon the hon. and learned Serjeant not to support the Bill, as the noble Lord had given no information as to the intentions of the Government with regard to the Privy Council grants. He had received letters from gentlemen in Scotland, who assured him that a feeling of opposition to the measure was growing up, which would prevent its being carried into operation. The United Presbyterians had met in synod, when forty-three out of 113 who were present voted against the Bill, and even the seventy who approved it objected to the 27th clause. The course they were now taking would, in his opinion, check the progress of education in Scotland, and throw into the hands of Government a power which they would not be able to exercise. He opposed both the present Bill and that of the hon. Member for Perthshire (Mr. Stirling), as he thought it impossible to take State pay for education of the people without committing moral injustice. He would not press his Motion for adjournment.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he objected to proceeding at that late hour.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, he begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary for Ireland, whether he was aware that a large proportion of the Irish Judges were incapacitated by age or other infirmities for the full and regular discharge of their duties, and, if so, whether the Government intend to apply any and what remedy? There were six Irish Judges permanently incapacitated from illness—three of whom had been called to the bar at the end of the last century, in the years 1796, 1797, and 1798.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, he had no serious intention of proceeding at that time with the Committee, and should therefore move that the Chairman do report progress.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he had moved the adjournment of the Committee for different reasons to that suggested by the hon. Member for Sheffield; but first, because of the lateness of the hour (half-past twelve), and next, because the settlement of the main question by the division just taken would allow many hon. Members who had opposed it to assist the Govern-in concerting any improvements which might be desirable.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said that, as this subject had been so completely exhausted, he should content himself with a few observations on the question raised by the Amendment of the hon. Member (Mr. C. Bruce). He (the Lord Advocate) trusted that they were now fast approaching the conclusion of sectarian strife, and that, after the division of to-night, they would throw away the polemical weapons which had been used, and address themselves solely to the means of affording an extended system of education to the people of Scotland. When he first addressed himself to the subject, it was not with the slightest regard to the domination of one Church or another. In his connection with the criminal judicature of the country, he had daily forced upon him the fearful amount of ignorance which prevailed in that country, and its necessary connection with crime. His hon. Friend the Member for Elginshire proposed to cut the Bill in two; but if that were done the results which would follow would be shortly these:—In the first place, they would have to maintain the Free Church schools throughout the country, because it was plain that it would be highly unjust to leave the parish schools with the denominational character which they had, and to withdraw the Privy Council grant from the Free Church schools. In the next place, if the control of the Church were continued, two sets of schools would be kept up where one was sufficient; and, in the last place, the state of the parish schools with regard to superintendence could not be maintained. Hon. Gentlemen talked continually of "our schools;" but the schools were not theirs. They were the schools of the nation, and the Established Church never had had the right of property in them. He denied that
 823
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he must beg to explain that he had said, on the part of the Government that it was not intended by this Bill to effect any change in the position of the Catholic population of Scotland as regarded the Privy Council grants, and he had added that, in his own opinion, the case of the Roman Catholics in the large towns for more favourable terms was very deserving of consideration.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he could not help remarking upon the answer which the hon. Gentleman had given to the complaint of his right hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Napier)—namely, that whatever might be the abuse in the system at the Woolwich Academy, it was not his business to inquire into or explain. A scholastic and scientific man at Woolwich College had drawn up a syllabus, in which was pointed out what were the sciences required to be known by candidates eligible for appointment under the Board of Ordnance. A copy of that syllabus came to
 789
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he begged it to be distinctly understood that he had
 790
 MR. WILSON  having moved that the House, at its rising, should adjourn till Monday next.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he would beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman, if he would have the goodness to turn to the Report of the Official Salaries Committee, where he would find an expression of opinion to the effect that the number of Judges in Ireland and Scotland should be reduced, and would take that Report into consideration before appointing any new Judges in Ireland?
 MR. BRIGHT : I am afraid, Sir, the unpleasantness which took place a week or two ago has very much tinged the character of the discussion to-night. I have now been a Member of this House a considerable number of years, and have seen many personal altercations occur in it; but I must say that I have never before to-night witnessed anything which bore the character of the ungenerous treatment of one of its Members. ["No, no!"]
 778 779
 MR. FERGUS  said, he would beg to take that opportunity of making a brief statement in vindication of the character of a gallant officer recently deceased, who had been subjected to a great amount of unmerited obloquy. A statement was publicly made by the hon. Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Layard) to the effect that "the command of the harbour of Balaklava was entrusted to Captain Christie, an old gentleman of seventy years of age—a gallant gentleman perhaps, but one unable from infirmity to leave his ship often for six or eight days together without risk of illness, which might endanger his health;" and then the hon. Member for Aylesbury proceeded to ask "whether, when such a person was in command of the harbour of Balaklava, it was wonderful that the state of things there was such as we knew it unfortunately to be?" Now, with respect to the facts of the case, he (Mr. Fergus) begged to say that he had had the honour of Captain Christie's acquaintance for a great number of years, and they had lived for a long time in the same neighbourhood. He had never known Captain Christie in his life to be troubled with any complaint, and when he left this country for the East he was in the fifty-seventh year of his age. Irrespective of age he was a man of the most athletic and vigorous constitution. With respect to the harbour of Balaklava, Captain Christie was never appointed to the command there. He never at any time had the charge of that harbour. His orders would not have been obeyed in the harbour. The sphere of his duty was outside the harbour. He commanded the transport service, and where his duty was, there he was. He (Mr. Fergus) thought that every allowance ought to be made for a gentleman whose only object was the
 770 "Kingcaussie, Aberdeen, February 26, 1855. "Sir,—I read with much regret your statement with regard to Captain Christie. A reference to the Admiralty books will easily show you that Captain Christie entered the service in 1810, being then twelve years old. I shall not trouble you with the details of his services, but you will find that he was always regarded as an energetic and painstaking officer. His duty lay outside of the harbour of Balaklava; he had the command of the transport service, and on the 14th of November he saved the ship  Melbourne Prince Prince "I have the honour to be your obedient servant,
 MR. FERGUS  said, he must beg to explain that the hon. Gentleman had totally misunderstood his question. The letter referred to was not one from Captain Christie, but from Captain Christie's sister, Mrs. Boswell, which was forwarded by himself to the hon. Member on the 28th of February.
 MR. MACKIE  said, he was of opinion that this Bill should be divided into two parts, by which means power could be given to assess houses in towns for educational purposes, in the same manner as property in the rural districts. He certain-
 795
 MR. ROEBUCK : Sir, as the Chairman of the Sebastopol Committee, and as this matter is one to which I have paid a good deal of attention, I trust the House will excuse me if I venture to make a few observations with reference to it. I think there is something which calls for remark in what has been stated by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Carlisle (Sir J. Graham). The right hon. Gentleman says that the first time he heard any imputation against Captain Christie was when the charge was made in this House by the hon. Member for Aylesbury. The word "charge" has been used. The statement was that Captain Christie was a man, in the belief of the hon. Member for Aylesbury, about seventy years of age, and that he was incapable, therefore, as the hon. Member knew him and saw him, of adequately performing his duty. Hereupon, as the hon. Member says, the right
 782 Prince; 783 784
 MR. NAPIER  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to certain circumstances connected with the recent nominations and appointments to the practical class at Woolwich. He considered a great injury had been done to the public service, and an act of injustice passed upon the University which he had the honour to represent. It appeared that, in consequence of the great want of artillery officers, a syllabus was prepared by Colonel Portlock, under the approbation of the Lieutenant General of the Ordnance. In this syllabus certain schools were requested to send forward the names of select students, thirty of whom were to be admitted into the practical class at Woolwich, without having gone through the theoretical class. Upon this the University of Dublin had acted, and a certain number of young men in the school of practical engineering, attached to the University, were invited to attend an examination. They were put through a severe examination, conducted by professors of the University. Amongst them were seven of superior merit, and
 787 "Sir—I am directed by the Board of Ordnance to inform you that a communication has been received from you recommending nine gentlemen for direct appointment to the practical class, Woolwich, and I have the honour to inform you that the gentlemen are already appointed for the next nomination, which takes place to-morrow, the 6th instant. As nineteen is the limit of age, the gentlemen whom you have recommended are not eligible. And I have also the honour to inform you that it is not the intention of the Board of Ordnance to throw open the appointments at Woolwich to the best answerers at a mere mathematical examination." 788
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary for Ireland, whether his attention had been called to the trial at the last Tyrone Assizes of two sets of defendants belonging to opposing religious and political parties for mutual assaults on each other at the same time and place, and to the course pursued by the public prosecutor employed by the Crown—namely, that though distinct and cross indictments were preferred by the one party against the other, he put both sets of defendants on trial together on the several indictments, and called the witnesses of the respective parties alternately until the equal number of six had been examined on each side against and for each party, each successive witness plumply centradicting what the preceding witness had sworn, and attributing to the opposite party the violence of which his own side was accused; and to the disapprobation expressed by the Judge at the acquittal of the one set of defendants by the jury, contrary to his expectation; and whether such a mode of conducting a prosecution by the public prosecutor in Ireland met with the approbation of the right hon. Gentleman?
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he must deny that hon. Members on that (the Opposition) side of the House, wished to destroy public education in Scotland. The measure now before them involved two objects, one to provide education for places where it was now deficient; and the other, as the right
 820 821
 MR. LAING  said, he thought that it was important to recall to the consideration of the House the Motion before them, by which it was proposed to withdraw the operation of the Bill from that portion of the people of Scotland who lived in the country, and to limit its operation to those who resided in towns. To show that there were no just grounds for this, it would be only necessary to state the principle upon which this Bill was founded, and that was to sever the intimate connection that existed between the Established Church and the parochial schools. As long as the Established Church was the Church of the nation, nothing was more natural than that there should be such a connection; but changes had taken place, and the Established Church was no longer the Church of the majority of the people of Scotland. They must regard Scotland for all practical purposes as divided into three denominations—the Established Church, the Free Church, and the United Presbyterians, Independents, and other Presbyterian Dissenters, and he would challenge any one to show that either as regarded number, respectability, or influence there was so marked a superiority of one of these parties over the others as to induce them to submit to its superiority and supremacy over the education of the mass of the educational establishments of the country. A practical necessity of dealing with this question had arisen from the fact that the educational establishments of the country had become manifestly insufficient to meet the requirements of the people; and this necessity had been urged on by the miserable salaries of the parochial schoolmasters, as it was obviously impossible to obtain for such small salaries an adequate supply of competent men to fill such important situations. The right hon. and learned Lord, with a view of extending education, had removed the test which made it necessary that every parochial schoolmaster should be a member of the Established Church, abolished the control of the Presbytery, and had introduced into the Bill principles to which the people of Scotland could not generally agree. The opponents of this Bill admitted its
 822
 MR. V. SCULLY : I said a Cabinet Minister. The hon. Member for Portsmouth is not a Cabinet Minister. [Sir J. GRAHAM: The Clerk of the Ordnance.] I beg to remind the right hon. Baronet that I am not speaking of Members of the Government merely, but of Cabinet Ministers; and I repeat there is not one of them an Irishman. Reverting, however, to the remarks of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Whiteside), I feel quite certain that to insure the due reward of merit, there ought to be public examinations.
 MR. V. SCULLY  said, he was strongly in favour of a public instead of a private examination. Until there was a public examination, Irishmen would not get fair play. At present not one-tenth of the Irishmen who were entitled to promotion received it, because the examinations were not public. There was not a single Cabinet Minister who was an Irishman. It had been stated, that the noble Lord at the head of the Government was an Irishman. He (Mr. Scully) had put this question in a letter addressed to the noble Lord. The answer to that letter he would not read, for a reason which he had given on a previous occasion. The noble Lord bore an Irish title, and was the owner of Irish property; but he felt very sorry that he could not claim the noble Lord as a countryman, although he was clever enough to be an Irishman.
 MR. BERESFORD  said, he begged to ask the hon. Under Secretary for War, whether the summer clothing for the troops serving in the Crimea has yet been despatched to the East; and whether it is true that the contract which has been entered into for the supply of such light clothing has been made at Vienna, and not in the United Kingdom?
 MR. W. EWART  said, he wished to ask the hon. Under Secretary for War, what progress had been made in the formation of the Foreign Legion?
 MR. MONSELL  said, in answer to the right hon. and learned Gentleman, he had only to say that the Board of Ordnance had nothing whatever to do with regard to the regulations respecting the appointments to which the right hon. and learned Gentleman had referred. Those regulations altogether rested with the Master General of the Ordnance. The right hon. and learned Gentleman had rather inconveniently mixed up two very separate questions. The first question was, whether the existing system of appointment was good or not; and the second question was, had that system been fairly carried out? With regard to the first question, he (Mr. Monsell) admitted that it was one of great importance, and well worthy the consideration of the House. Still, the real question the House had now to consider was, not whether the principle which had existed for so long a time at the Woolwich Academy was a good one or not, but whether it had been rightly and fairly applied in the present instance. The right hon. and learned Gentleman had fairly stated that he did not accuse any of the authorities with having acted unfairly, because it had been admitted that those authorities made the nominations, not upon the ground of merit, but merely in accordance with a system long established. At the same time, he believed that every care was taken that the young men who were nominated should be fitted to the situation to which they were appointed, although it was not pretended that they were selected because they were the fittest persons for the situation.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he quite agreed with the last speaker as to the excellent results which had flowed from the old system of Scottish education; but what had been the reason why that system had produced such desirable effects? It was because it had been connected with the Church of the people of Scotland, to whom it was endeared by tradition and by old associations. But when that Church had ceased to be connected with the people, as it formerly was, it could not be expected that the same results would follow from it. The right hon. and learned Lord Advocate proposed to adapt the system to the altered feelings of the Scotch people, and he (Mr. Urquhart) could only say he had received many communications from Scotland in favour of the measure. Sheriff Watson, of Aberdeen, whose infant schools had attracted so much praise, regarded the Bill of the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate as a great step in advance, and, on the contrary, greatly disapproved the Bill of the hon. Member for Perthshire (Mr. Stirling). Another gentleman, a Conservative, expressed his approval of the Bill now that the objectionable power of summary dismissal of schoolmasters without hearing was removed. He (Mr. Urquhart) should only call the attention of the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate to the 17th clause, which might require some alteration; but, as a whole, the measure would have his support.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, he was aware that this Bill did nothing which would prejudice the interests of the Catholics of Scotland, and if the right hon. and learned Lord had spoken with the authority of the Government he should feel quite justified in voting with the Government to-night; but if there were any doubt upon that point, it must be cleared up. The Government would not have the benefit of the votes of the representatives of Ireland, unless they distinctly stated their concurrence in the sentiments and opinions of the right hon. and learned Lord. He, therefore, called upon the right hon. and learned Lord to give a distinct assurance that the Queen's Catholic subjects in Scotland should be fairly treated, and he would then again vote for the moral and religious education of the Presbyterian people of Scotland according to their own religious opinions.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said he had voted for the second reading of the Bill because he was desirous of giving to the people of Scotland a system of sound moral and religious education; but it was the duty of those hon. Gentlemen who, like himself, were returned by Roman Catholic constituencies, to take care of the interests of the Queen's Roman Catholic subjects in every part of Great Britain. The right hon. and learned Lord had stated that he expressed only his own individual opinion with regard to the Catholic population of Scotland—
 SIR ARCHIBALD CAMPBELL  said, he questioned the accuracy of the noble Lord's statement, that sixty of the parochial masters had been ousted from their livings at the secession of 1843, for he believed that the number was only twenty-eight. The question for the consideration of the House was, not whether they should sanction the system of the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate, but whether the present system should be abolished, in order that his plan might be adopted in the parish schools; and therefore the supporters of the Bill were bound to prove that the present system was faulty. He did not understand how the parochial system could be accused of being the cause of the large consumption of ardent spirits in Scotland. In his opinion, the question whether the schoolmaster should be of the Established Church or not, taken in connection with this Bill, was one of secondary importance, for the object they had in view was the efficient education of the people; and unless it could be shown that the kind of education given by the schoolmasters of one denomination was inferior to that given by those of another, he saw little objection to them on that ground. He believed, too, that that was the view taken by the people of Scotland, who would naturally be desirous to send their children to the best school. By the Bill of the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington) the denomination of the school was to be settled by the Committee of Council, and the schoolmaster would be appointed accordingly; but by the right hon. and learned Lord's measure the selection of the schoolmaster would be vested in the ratepayers, who, to avoid creating sectarian dissension, might select men of no particular denomination. They would have to recur to general Christianity, which very often meant no Christianity at all. He drew a broad distinction between the two Bills on Scotch education now before the House. One was a constructive, and the other, the right hon. and learned Lord's, a destructive measure, and one which would destroy that system which had tended to make the middle classes of Scotland more intelligent than those of
 799
 MR. OTWAY  said, that during the debate two facts had come out, the first was, that the hon. Member for Aylesbury had never made a charge of any kind against Captain Christie; and the second was, that when the hon. Member had, as had been said, spoken of that officer in a depreciating tone, the First Lord of the Admiralty, who believed him competent, had never had the proper feeling on that occasion to defend that officer. So far from doing this, he took credit to himself, as did also the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham), that they were about to supersede Captain Christie and to subject him to the ordeal of a court-martial. He regretted that on a former occasion the hon. Member for Aylesbury, relying no doubt on information received on military authority, had fallen into some inaccuracies; and, had he been aware of what the hon. Member was about to have stated on that occasion, he could have told him that in the case of one of those officers the rules of the service had been complied with. He hoped his hon. Friend would not be deterred from the course he was pursuing in exposing the monstrous abuses of our military system by sneers and clamour, for he might be assured that if he persisted in it he would be supported by the country. Having had a notice upon the paper for two successive weeks, he would take this opportunity of calling the attention of the First Lord of the Treasury to the subject to which it referred—it was, indeed, principally for this purpose that he had risen. A short time since 300 or 400 Poles had sailed in our transports from one of our harbours, armed and equipped for service against Russia. He wished to know whether those Poles were to be incorporated in the Foreign Legion now being raised in Turkey, or whether they were to form a separate legion, and to be commanded by their own officers? He had already strongly advocated the latter course, for the moment the Polish standard was raised in the Crimea it would no doubt be joined by a large number of the Poles now in the ser-
 786
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that at first considerable difficulty was experienced by the Government in regard to the raising of the Foreign Legion. Latterly, however, more active measures had been taken, and he was informed by the agents engaged in recruiting on the Continent of Europe, that between 3,000 and 4,000 men had been enlisted under an arrangement between Her Majesty's Government and certain foreign officers. In the first instance, it was proposed that a corps of 5,000 men should be raised, but latterly the success attending the efforts of the recruting agents had been such as to induce the officers to propose that an additional force of 5,000 men should be raised, and to that proposal the Government had given their consent. In addition to that force of 10,000 men, certain officers were employed in raising a force of 3,000 men in Switzerland, and up to the present time their success had been most encouraging. With regard to the arrangements made for the reception of these forces, depôts had been formed at Heligoland, and Shorncliffe in this country, where the recruits would be received, and the preparations for their reception were satisfactory, with the exception, perhaps, of the huts at Shorncliffe, which were not in so advanced a state as they might have been. But accommodation had been found in the barracks at Dover, and by the time that any considerable number of recruits would arrive at Shorncliffe, the huts would be ready to receive them. With regard to the discipline and officers, the Foreign Legion would be under the orders of the General Commanding in Chief, and a sufficient number of officers
 766
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that his noble Friend Lord Panmure had commissioned a house in Vienna to purchase 50,000 pairs of light trowsers, and the like number of light pea coats, for the use of the army in the Crimea. Already one-half had been shipped from Trieste to the Commissariat Department at Constantinople, and the remainder of the order was to have been executed by the end of last month. He had no doubt that by the present time the whole supply of clothing had reached Constantinople.
 MR. BOWYER  said he wished to say a few words with regard to the operation of this Bill, as it would affect Roman Catholics and others who were not members of the Established Church of Scotland. The only difference between this and the former Bill was the omission of the denominational clause. It was difficult to understand the principle or the logic with which the people of Scotland regarded that clause. He understood the objection to it to be, that the people of Scotland, condemning that system of religion which they believed to be false were willing only to contribute to that religion which they believed to be true. But they did not see that the very same objection might be urged by Catholics, Episcopalians, and Dissenters against the very principle of this Bill? Having regard to the prejudices of the people of Scotland, no Government would appoint a Roman Catholic on the Board of Education; and he did not think Roman Catholics or Episcopalians, or anybody who dissented from Presbyterianism, could look with any hope to that portion of clause one which gave Her Majesty power to appoint five members of the Board. The system of government under this Bill would be very strongly and decidedly Presbyterian. The schoolmasters, with whom would rest the duty of affording religious instruction, would all be Presbyterians; and, although by the 27th clause the children would not be bound to attend if their parents or guardians objected, Roman Catholics could not admit that it was possible to separate secular and religious instruction, if that instruction went at all beyond reading and writing. He said, therefore, that the teaching given, as it would be by persons closely identified with the Presbyterian Church, could not be satisfactory either to the Roman Catholics or the Episcopalians of Scotland, and that in all probability neither Roman Catholics nor Episcopalians—
 801
 SIR GRAHAM MONTGOMERY  said, he wished to explain the grounds upon which he was opposed to this Bill. The professed object of the Bill was to take advantage of the great preponderance of Presbyterianism in Scotland, to establish an extended system of national, religious, and unsectarian education. Considering, however, that there was in Scotland already a very perfect system, so far as it went, before assenting to subvert the present parochial schools, and to accept of this new scheme, they should be satisfied that the measure before the House was what it professed to be, and would effect what it proposed to do. No doubt the withdrawal, in the Bill of this year, of the denominational clause gave the measure a greater claim to be considered a national system—at least its principle was more intelligible—though at the same time it was imperfect in its comprehensiveness, as regarded the non-Presbyterian portion of the community. He could not see how Episcopalians and Roman Catholics, who would be taxed as well as their Presbyterian neighbours by this Bill, were to be convinced of its unsectarian and universal character. Then, as to whether the Bill was a religious Bill or not, the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate, with a view, it appeared to him, of propitiating that portion of the Presbyterian body who held voluntary principles, and were opposed to all application of the revenues of the State for providing religious instruction, left that question in the same state of uncertainty and ambiguity as last year. If his system was to be Presbyterian, why did he not acknowledge the Westminster Confession of Faith, the Shorter Catechism, and the Holy Scriptures, to be the foundation of the religious instruction to be given in the schools, and make subscription to these standards of Presbyterianism an ostensible guarantee for the religious character of the teacher? Instead of doing this, however, the right hon. and learned Lord contented himself with placing in the preamble of his Bill, an abstract assertion, that the religious instruction
 794
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : The noble Lord the Member for Portsmouth (Viscount Monck) is an Irishman.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : I am, Sir, extremely anxious that this discussion, which is of a most painful character, should not be unnecessarily prolonged. But I must say that it is not the character of the hon. Member for Aylesbury which is now at stake, but a debt of justice which is due to the memory of a gallant man. And, Sir, I beg leave to state that no transaction has for a long time given me such acute and deep pain as this very transaction we are now discussing, for it is no longer possible to render a tribute of justice which might soothe the feelings of a gallant man now no more; but still there is a debt of justice due to his relatives, who feel the greatest interest in all that happens. I, Sir, am responsible, and alone responsible for the original appointment of Captain Christie. He was unknown to me except by reputation. He bore a high and spotless character in his own gallant profession. He had served well and honourably, and he was recommended to me as competent for the situation to which I appointed him. I believe the first serious question raised with respect to his competency was raised in this House by the hon. Member for Aylesbury. Certainly, Sir, I shall not attempt to give evidence as to the precise words used by the hon. Member on that occasion; but it will be in the recollection of the House that the allusions to Captain Christie were very disparaging—that he was an old man, and a sickly man. ["No, no!"] I understood the hon. Member to say he was so liable to catarrh as to be unable to leave his ship for many days consecutively, and I leave it to the House to judge whether the tone and substance of what the hon. Member said did not leave
 780 781
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, as a Member of the Sebastopol Committee, I feel bound to take some notice of the evidence given before that Committee by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle (Sir James Graham). I must say I never heard a more unfair representation of that evidence than that which has been given by the hon. Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Layard). The hon. Member had heard the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Graham) allude to the then supposed death of Captain Christie, for it had not yet been ascertained, and the right hon. Gentleman, with a depth of feeling which I think did him honour, said that he believed at that moment that Captain Christie was a dead man from a broken heart. I heard no more from the right hon. Gentleman than I what a man of good feeling would have said, who was giving evidence with reference to Captain Christie at a moment of such melancholy interest. I cannot refrain from adding my very deep regret at the course which the hon. Member for Aylesbury has taken upon this subject. The hon. Member says this matter is brought forward for party purposes, and that there is an endeavour to crush him.
 777
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the hon. Member has misunderstood what I stated on a former occasion. I did not say
 769
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, in reply to the hon. Gentleman, that the state of the question was this—a certain number of Polish and Russian prisoners had been taken in the course of the war. The Polish prisoners expressed a strong desire to join a legion of Poles that was being formed under a Polish commander named Czartoryski, to act in the Turkish service. They were sent out at the expense of the British Government, and were at the same furnished with arms. They were to be enrolled in the Turkish service as a corps called by a name which certainly did not convey the idea of any distinct nationality. Their banner was to be the Cross and the Crescent, to mark the combination of the arms of the two countries. With those Polish prisoners there also went out a certain number of Polish emigrants from this country, who were desirous to enter into the same service. Every man went of his own accord; and, as they would all be engaged in the Turkish service, it would rest with the Turkish Government to determine how and where they were to be employed.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he had only to say, in reply to the hon. and learned Serjeant's appeal to him as to
 825
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, it appears to me with reference to the question of my right hon. Friend (Mr. S. Herbert) that the answer of the noble Lord justifies me in making an appeal to the right hon. Member for Manchester. The passage which was quoted by my right hon. Friend was from the record of a conference held at Vienna on the 21st of April. Since that conference was held, a further conference took place on the 26th of April. At that further conference a second Russian proposal was tendered, and that second proposal was met by the representatives of Austria and France by the recital of various strong objections, but at the same time—if I rightly understand the record—with a declaration that it contained materials for further discussion, and the elements of a possible settlement. On the part of the only representative of England present at that conference it was met by the declaration that his instructions were exhausted. Under those circumstances, Sir, it appears to me that the right hon. Member for Manchester was entirely justified in the supposition, so far as England was concerned, and in reference to the proposals which had been laid before the Conferences of Vienna, that those conferences and negotiations had absolutely terminated. No doubt, Sir, it is a matter of the utmost delicacy and difficulty for this House to form a judgment, in circumstances so critical, at what point it is their duty to respect and leave in tact the functions of the Executive Government, and where the functions of the Government terminate and its own function of pronouncing judgment on the conduct of that Government begins.
 MR. GLADSTONE : If the hon. and learned Gentleman insists upon it, I will conclude with a Motion.
 MR. GLADSTONE : I was going to say, Sir, that as it appears upon the record as it stands before the House, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester was perfectly warranted in I believing that there was, so far, so much at least of an absolute termination to the negotiation upon the basis before us, that the time had arrived when he might justly appeal to the House for its judgment upon the subject. I concurred, I confess, in that opinion; I did feel, I believe along with him, that if the House had permitted the papers which have been laid upon the table of the House to remain there without an expression of opinion upon its own part, the inference drawn out of doors would justly be, from the silence of the House, that it concurred in what had taken place, and made itself virtually a party to the declaration of the British Plenipotentiary on the 26th of April, that his instructions were exhausted, which of course, if it stood alone, would mean that the discussions of the conference were at an end, and that there was no prospect of a settlement being arrived at by what had already passed between the Powers assembled. We have already heard, and it is unnecessary for me again to repeat, the answers just made by the noble Lord at the head of the Government to my right hon. Friend (Mr. S. Herbert); but it is plain that those answers leave the case in a position different from that in which it would have stood had it rested on the declaration of the Earl of Westmoreland on the 26th of April, that his instructions were exhausted. I will not enter now upon a discussion of the declaration of the noble Lord, that no proposals incompatible with the honour of the Government or the country will be accepted or entertained by the Government; but I for one feel very deeply the responsibility of interfering with the proceedings of Her Majesty's Government in matters of negotiation which are still open, and I do not think that I over-interpret what has fallen from my noble Friend when I say that these negotiations are still open, and that these negotiations do afford, in the opinion of the Powers, or some of them, the materials of a satisfactory settlement. There is no reason why advantage should not be taken of those proposals for the purpose of seeing what could be made of them. Convinced as I am that the right hon. Gentleman
 839
 THE MARQUESS OF GRANBY : Sir, it seems to me of great importance in deciding the question whether the discussion on the Motion of the right hon. Member for Manchester is or is not to be postponed that we should clearly understand whether negotiations are now actually taking place or not, and that there is a prospect of a peace being concluded. It appears to me also essential to know distinctly whether the First Lord of the Treasury is willing to entertain any propositions that may be made by any of the five powers assembled at Vienna, or whether the propositions which are to be made are restricted solely to the powers of France and England. I ask this, because the date at which the noble Lord the Member for London said that he had exhausted his instructions was not on the 26th of April, has stated by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Wiltshire (Mr. S. Herbert) but, as I think, the 21st of April, before Russia had made her last proposition. It therefore seems to me that the noble Lord received instructions from Her Majesty's Government that, whatever propositions
 851
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the case was as the right hon. Gentleman had stated. The Order for a Committee of Supply was usually placed on the paper for Monday, and then adjourned from Monday to Wednesday, and then again to Friday; but on this particular occasion, by Order of the House, the Committee of Supply was fixed for Thursday instead of Friday, to enable the hon. Member for Aylesbury to bring forward his Motion.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : Sir, I take this opportunity of stating, having no knowledge of what course the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester is about to take in consequence of the appeal that has just been made to him by my right hon. Friend—I wish to state that should he think it his duty to persist in bringing forward his Motion, I shall consider it my duty to move the previous question as an Amendment to it.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : Sir, I observe that the right hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) has placed upon the Votes of the House a question tending to lead to a precipitate decision, which may involve the most momentous consequences to the country and the whole of Europe. I wish, before the question is entered upon, to make an inquiry of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, inasmuch as upon his answer must depend my own course, and probably that of some other gentlemen in the House, on the Motion about to be submitted to their decision. I find upon page 73 of the papers of the Vienna Conferences, a protocol of the 21st of April, at which my noble Friend (Lord John Russell) was present, the following paragraph:—
 "Count Buol does not consider the different modes of solution as exhausted, and considers it as especially the task of Austria to look for means of accommodation. He hopes, therefore, that the conference will meet again as soon as any of its members shall have any new proposition to make."
 LORD HARRY VANE : Sir, I stand in somewhat a different position from the right hon. Member for South Wiltshire, inasmuch as I had engaged to second the Motion of my right hon. Friend the Member for Manchester, and came down to the House with a perfect intention of fulfilling my engagement. But, after what has fallen from the right hon. Member for the
 840
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he would beg to suggest that, in accordance with the rule which had governed poor-law legislation of late years, the word "pauper" should be struck out of the Bill, and "poor person" inserted instead.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Whether, Sir, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester will or will not bring on his Motion to-night, is a matter which must be left entirely to his own discretion. Upon that point the Government have no advice to give him. All we can say is, that we shall be ready to meet that Motion if it should be made, and prepared to acquiesce in its postponement if that is the course upon the adoption of which the right hon. Gentleman means to decide. The hon. and learned Gentleman, the Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) has said that the declaration which has been made by my noble Friend at the head of the Government with reference to the subject of these negotiations amounts to nothing more than what might be said at any moment of any war, namely, that the Government were ready to entertain new propositions for peace. Now that is not precisely the position of affairs as they stand at the present moment. What that position is we are bound, so far as we can do so consistently with the confidential nature of the communications which have taken place, to state to the House. In the first place, I think it right to fill up certain omissions which have necessarily been made in the protocols, which are mere summaries of conferences which lasted sometimes as long as four hours and a half. At the last conference at which I had the honour of assisting, Count Buol, after a long discussion had taken place, said that he did not think the discussion in which we were engaged was likely to lead to any decisive result; that the belligerent powers were not likely to come to an agreement, and that, therefore, it was his opinion that the conferences had better terminate. He, however, added, that although no solution of the question at issue had been arrived at, he did not think the means of accommodation were exhausted, and that as every member of the conference had a right to bring forward propositions, he hoped that at an early day the conferences would be resumed for the purpose of taking into consideration any propositions which might be submitted for discussion. To that observation I replied that, "Although the means of accommodation might not
 852 853 854
 MR. DISRAELI : I have seldom witnessed, Sir, in this House a scene like that which is now enacting. At the first blush it appeared to me that if the extraordinary, and as I believe most impolitic, request of the two right hon. Gentlemen who have so suddenly risen this evening is to be acceded to, the House of Commons and the country have a right to demand a much more explicit declaration from the head of the Government than has yet been made as to really what position the country is now placed in with respect to recent negotiations, than that which the noble Lord and his colleagues apparently seem to consider amply sufficient to satisfy the demands of the two right hon. Gentlemen. Now, Sir, what is the state of the case? The noble Lord tells us that he believes he can venture to say that he supposes that it is not impossible that peace may be obtained—that all the means of resolving a difficult political problem have not been exhausted by those distinguished men who have devoted their abilities to the service of the Sovereign and the country. But has the noble Lord stated any circumstances which may induce us, as representatives of the people, to suppose that there are any grounds by which we may guide our conduct at a moment so critical as the present in order to justify a strange forbearance from expressing our opinion upon public affairs? The noble Lord has done nothing of the kind. "While there is life there is hope;" that appears to be the policy of Her Majesty's Government. I am sure, Sir, I am the last man in this House who would strictly define the limits to which forbearance might reach in the conduct of Parliament or of the Opposition while preparations for war or negotiations for peace were taking place. I think it our duty to place in the
 841 842 843
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he would take that opportunity of asking the hon. Gentleman whether there would be any Committee of Supply before the holidays?
 MR. DISRAELI  said, was he to understand, then, that there would be really no Committee of Supply on Thursday, but that a Motion would be made for going into Committee, in order that an opportunity might be afforded to the hon. Member for Aylesbury to bring forward an important Motion, a notice of which stood on the paper for that day?
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, he wished to take that opportunity of making a few observations. The House had been pleased to receive this measure with so much favour that it was not necessary for him to offer any arguments with regard to it. If it had any defects he was answerable for them, but he had no right to claim any of its merits for himself, for they belonged to the Rev. Mr. Rixon, Canon of Manchester, who was the first to suggest a mode of dealing with this destitute class. The children of all persons receiving relief in workhouses did obtain education, and it was only the children of those who received relief out of the workhouses, the most destitute of all classes, who had no means of education provided for them. If from 100,000 to 200,000 of these children should now receive some education, the merit of the measure, he repeated, was due to Mr. Rixon. He would now move that the Bill be recommitted.
 MR. CAYLEY  said, he had all along thought that the notice of Motion given by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester was inopportune, and dangerous to the best interests of the country; but he thought the discussion of that evening would be even still more mischievous and dangerous, because it would tend to create a belief in the minds of the Russian authorities that a desire existed among the representatives of the people of this country for peace at any price. It was useless to be making declarations in favour of peace. Every man was for peace; but the more they encouraged statements in deprecation of war, and protestations in favour of peace, the more distant they drove peace from their borders. It should be recollected that, when Members spoke in that House, they spoke not to themselves or to this country alone, but to Europe; and what would be the understanding of Russia with regard to this
 860 861
 MR. WARNER  said, he rose to ask the First Lord of the Treasury whether any privileges of trade with Japan had recently been acquired by Russia or the United States of America; and if so, whether Her Majesty's Government had secured equal privileges for British subjects?
 MR. WILSON  said, there would be no objection to move that the House go into Committee of Supply for the purpose of enabling any Gentleman to bring on a Motion; but after the understanding he had had with several hon. Members he should not feel justified in proposing that the House actually go into a Committee of Supply that night.
 MR. WILSON  said, there was no probability of the House going into Committee of Supply before the holidays, although an Order of the Day for that purpose had been put down for Thursday next, that being the day on which it was expected the hon. Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Layard) would avail himself of the opportunity of bringing forward his Motion on the State of the Nation.
 MR. BRIGHT : I wish, Sir, to say that I think there has been a little over-excitement on both sides of the table about this matter. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire need not be over much exasperated at any course that may be
 847 848 849
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he believed that Austria, although acting in good faith, would never agree to make an aggressive war against Russia, which she could not do without dismembering the Austrian empire. He thought that the war had been entered into without due consideration, and in ignorance of the power of the Russian Empire; but he trusted that every means would be adopted to establish a permanent and honourable peace.
 MR. ROEBUCK : Sir, after the speech of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, I think it is pretty clear that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester is bound to go on with his Motion. The noble Lord the Member for South Durham kindly informed the House that he had intended to second the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman, but that circumstances have now changed. Now, after the speech of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, I ask him if the circumstances have changed? The noble Lord has said that when the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. M. Gibson) proposed to bring these Resolutions before the House he felt it would be impolitic so to do, and that he is of the same opinion now; but he has not given the House to understand that any circumstance has happened to place the question in a different position from that in which it was when the right hon. Gentleman laid the Resolutions on the table. What is the last Resolution of the right hon. Gentleman? It is—
 "And to express to Her Majesty, that it is the opinion of this House that the propositions made by the Government of Russia, for giving effect to the principle of the said Third Article, contain elements for renewed negotiation, and may offer the means of obtaining an honourable and satisfactory peace." 850
 MR. ROEBUCK : Very good. In that case I shall not interrupt the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. ROEBUCK : Sir, I rise to order.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he begged to give notice of his intention to move for all papers relating to the conduct of the late Captain Christie as commander of transports in the Black Sea; a statement of the dates at which such papers were received at the Admiralty; a copy of any letter written by Sir James Graham as First Lord of the Admiralty, ordering an inquiry into the conduct of Captain Christie; the date of such letter; a copy of any letter written by Sir J. Graham, ordering a court-martial to be held upon Captain Christie, and the date of such letter.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought that nothing would be more cruel than, because a child was unfortunately a pauper, to cause it to associate in any way with criminals. He believed the Bill would do a great deal of good, and that the Boards of Guardians would, to a great degree, avail themselves of its provisions.
 MR. BAINES  said, that the reformatory schools were in almost all cases schools in which criminals were instructed, and there would be great and substantial objection to making them places of education for that portion of the population which was untainted by crime. He should very much regret to see any idea of that kind sanctioned by the Legislature. The other object to which the hon. Gentleman referred—namely, the education of the out-door poor in the workhouse schools—was already provided for under the first clause of the present Bill. There was a number of workhouses in this country, with very good schools, and with a comparatively small number of children attending them, and the guardians were extremely anxious to avail themselves of that accommodation
 863
 MR. BAINES  said, that the word only occurred in the title of the Bill, and could of course be altered in Committee.
 MR. BAINES  said, he would now bring forward the following Clause:—
 "In the case of any child of such age as aforesaid, relieved out of the workhouse, which child has been deserted by its parents or surviving parent, or both of whose parents are dead, it shall be lawful for such guardians, in like manner, and with the like discretion as aforesaid, to grant relief for the purpose of providing education for such child in any such school as aforesaid."
 MR. BAINES  said, the Bill as it now stood, provided that children who had not been guilty of crime might be sent to any industrial or reformatory school, with the consent of the parents of such children and the guardians of the poor—the guardians, of course, defraying the expense of their maintenance.
 Mr. MALINS  said, he had a strong opinion relative to the mock proceeding—to which he could apply no other epithet—that had just been going on. The nation was watching the proceedings of that House with breathless anxiety, and during the last week it was impossible to go into any part of the country, or into any society, without being asked what the House of Commons were going to do upon the Motion of the right hon. Member for Manchester? The country was aware that the Conferences of Vienna were brought to a close, and the Government had not said a word to show that they were resumed, that anything serious had been taken into consideration, or that there was any rational ground for supposing that any proposition would be made. The Motion was now postponed indefinitely, and the result would be a feeling of deep disgust that the House had been so far wanting in its duty. It would be thought that the Government were more intent upon negotiations than upon the effectual carrying on of the war. He thought that any Ministry who were willing to carry on negotiations for peace upon terms less favourable than those proposed by the Western Powers at Vienna would be insensible to the honour and greatness of this country, and unworthy of the support of that House. The enemy would never believe the Government were in earnest in carrying on the war while they showed this intense desire for peace. He could not help expressing his indignation
 859
 MR. SWIFT  gave notice that he would call the attention of the House to the entire subject at a future period.
 MR. SWIFT , said he wished to inquire of the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary whether it was true that Roman Catholic prisoners in the House of Correction, Wandsworth, who decline to attend the Church of England service, are confined to their respective cells in solitude during the entire of the Sunday? whether prisoners registered as Roman Catholics are systematically visited by the Protestant chaplain of the institution, furnished exclusively with Protestant books of devotion and controversy, and no Catholic clergyman admitted to them unless when the prisoner makes a special application to see one? and whether during the last year the number of Catholic prisoners had been sometimes upward of eighty, of whom only a dozen received any sort of religious instruction from a clergyman of their creed?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, I think Her Majesty's Government have thrown a heavy responsibility on me, but as I have undertaken to bring forward the Motion for the Address of which I have given notice, I feel bound to endure it. My hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Roebuck) says that I have upon this occasion thrust myself forward. He says that he wishes to have an honourable peace, but that others will have a peace at any price. I do not know on what authority the hon. and learned Member makes that assertion, or why he and his Friends should arrogate to themselves the exclusive appreciation of the feelings and honour and dignity of the country. Sir, I do not yield to him or to any man in this House in my desire to support the dignity and honour of the country. I am not the man to stand up in my place in this House and advocate a course which is inconsistent with the safety of the country, or inconsistent with its honour and dignity. Her Majesty's Government, I think, ought to have anticipated this discussion when they laid the protocols on the table. I consider that, when Her Majesty's Government placed before the Houses of Legislature the records of the proceedings of the recent conferences, they ought at once to have invited the opinion of Parliament on the course which they had pursued. When the papers were produced, I felt myself at liberty, under these circumstances, to move the Address of which I have given notice, with the view of submitting that opinion to the consideration of the House. Sir, I admit the difficulty of the position, now that Government tells us that the conferences are not at an end, and that before the conferences are finally concluded, the Austrian Government has undertaken to produce some plan for bringing about an understanding between the belligerent Powers, that the Austrian Government will, before the conclusion of the conferences, submit a plan to the Governments of France and England. Hearing also from Her Majesty's Government that, under these circumstances, they will not feel themselves at liberty to discuss with frankness and without reserve the various proposals which have been made, I admit that I feel I should not be serving the object which I have in view, or serving the public interests, if I were to persevere in my Motion,
 858
 MR. GROGAN  said, he certainly could not congratulate the Government on the dignity of their position, but he did not rise to prolong the debate. He wished to know whether it was intended that night to take Supply, which stood last on the paper.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I do not rise, Sir, to make any statement, but merely to answer two specific questions which have been addressed to the Government by the right hon. Baronet who has just spoken. The right hon. Baronet has asked whether the conferences are closed. He has assumed, rather than asked, that the plenipotentiaries have withdrawn. I thought it was clearly to be inferred from the statement of my noble Friend the Secretary of State for the Colonies that the conferences are not closed. The conferences, as he stated, are in the same position as when, at the request of the Russian plenipotentiaries, they were adjourned without any day being fixed for their resumption, and any propositions may be entertained by the members of those conferences who still remained at Vienna. In that respect the plenipotentiaries have not withdrawn. It is true that my noble Friend (Lord John Russell), who was associated with Lord Westmorland, has returned to this country, and that M. Drouyn de Lhuys, who was associated with Baron de Bourqueney, has also left Vienna; but Lord Westmorland, as the British plenipotentiary, and Baron de Bourqueney, as the French plenipotentiary, have full powers to act. The elements of the conferences still remain, and any day the members can be summoned to discuss new propositions. The right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Pakington) also assumes that the Government is anxious, for its own convenience, to evade this discussion. That statement has been explicitly denied already by my noble Friend (Lord Palmerston), and the only reason suggested for the postponement of the discussion is, that in the present state of affairs at Vienna it may be prejudicial to the public interests. It is for the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester to decide what course shall be taken; but, whether the discussion proceeds or not, the Government is prepared to meet it. Reasons have been stated by several hon. Members why they think it better the Motion should be
 857
 SIR GEGRGE GREY  said, that in the Wandsworth House of Correction, the system of separate confinement was strictly carried out, and under that system all the prisoners remained in cells except during exercise, school hours, or attendance on divine worship. If any prisoners declined to attend divine worship, they were not removed from their cells. With respect to the second part of the question, he had to state that the Protestant chaplain had, in conformity with his instructions, to visit all prisoners who did not claim the privilege, in consequence of dissenting from the Established Church, of being attended by a clergyman of their own persuasion. With regard to Catholic prisoners, their cells were not furnished with books of a controversial character, but a Bible and other books were supplied to them. Such were the ordinary rules; and every prisoner, if not a member of the Church of England, might claim the right to be visited by his own clergyman. All the Roman Catholic prisoners had had notice to that effect read them at the request of Dr. Grant the Roman Catholic bishop. He would take the present opportunity of answering a question of a similar character which the hon. Member had put on the paper of a former evening, and which appeared to imply some censure on the authorities of Newgate prison. The question had reference to the criminal who had recently suffered the last sentence of the law. Having investigated the facts of the case, he found that the authorities of Newgate prison were absolved from all degree
 836
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, it was clear that the course which the House ought to pursue depended on the fact whether it was true or not that the conferences were closed. If Austria was about to produce propositions which might or might not be accepted, it was clearly a legitimate excuse for the House not to enter upon this discussion at the present moment, and, in his opinion, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester had exercised a wise discretion in the course which he had taken. He (Sir H. Willoughby), however, trusted that the doubt would be cleared up as to whether any propositions were to be expected from Austria.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : I do not know, Sir, that it will be quite regular for me, upon a mere notice of motion, to address the House; but I think that in a matter personally affecting one of its members the House will extend that courtesy to me which I now crave at its hands. The House will remember that on the motion for the adjournment on Friday last the hon. Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Layard) made some comments in the most pointed manner alluding to myself. I had not the slightest intention of addressing the House upon that occasion, but the allusions were such that I thought it absolutely necessary to rise in my place. At that moment I had not in my hands any official documents, nor had I an opportunity of referring to dates, but without the least preparation addressed the House according to my recollection and impressions at the moment. If I remember aright I stated on that occasion what was my strong opinion, that considering the freedom of debate in this House it was absolutely necessary that the members exercising it should use the utmost caution with respect to the accuracy of their statements, and also
 831 "I believe the first serious question raised with respect to his competency was raised in this House by the hon. Member for Aylesbury." "I ordered an inquiry to be instituted—after that debate to which I have alluded—by the Commander in Chief on the naval station as to whether, in his opinion, Captain Christie had effectively and well discharged the duties of the station to which he had been appointed." 832 "I have to call your particular attention to the grave error committed by Captain Christie, in sending certain Turkish troops to Balaklava instead of Eupatoria, as adverted to by Lord Raglan in his despatch of the 8th instant, and with reference to the general conduct of the transport service in the Black Sea, their Lordships wish to be furnished, as speedily as circumstances will permit, with your opinion and report as to the manner in which those duties have been discharged by Captain Christie, and as to the perfect competency of that officer to carry out the intentions of the Government, and his capability to fulfil the duties devolving upon an officer holding so important a post." 833 834
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I do not think that the noble Lord has stated to the House any facts whatever, or that he has added anything to the observations which have fallen from the noble Lord at the head of the Government, which can guide the House, in arriving at a decision as to whether the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester ought, or ought not, to persevere in his Motion. I do not believe that there exists upon either side of the House a disposition to press the Government unfairly. The question is one of too much importance to admit of the display of party feeling. But if the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester is to be deterred from persevering in his Motion, I think we have a right to receive from Her Majesty's Ministers some more explicit declaration than we have yet had, as to whether negotiations for peace are, or are not, still pending. The noble Lord the Member for London (Lord John Russell) has thrown no light upon this question. I think some difficulty has arisen in consequence of—and no small confusion has been created by—the fact that those negotiations have taken place at the Court of a neutral Power, and that our representatives are still, therefore, remaining at Vienna, although our plenipotentiary has returned. The Government have laid upon the table the protocols of the negotiations which have taken place. The usual course under such circumstances is for Parliament to pronounce upon those protocols; and I confess I can see no reason why the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester
 855 856
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he begged to ask the right hon. President of the Poor Law Board if there would be any objection to the insertion in the Bill of a clause to enable the Guardians of the Poor to provide for the education of pauper children in reformatory or industrial schools? He wanted to know whether any provision would be made for providing instruction in these schools for children, who, though not actually criminal, were in circumstances which rendered it probable they would become so, if they were not previously properly taken care of.
 VISCOONT PALMERSTON : Sir, in reply to what has fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, I am prepared to maintain that the course which I have taken in regard to the proceedings of the House upon this matter has been uniform and consistent. The right hon. Gentleman upon a former occasion called upon me to lay upon the table of the House the proceedings of the Conference of Vienna. I told him that I would do so. I think the House and the country were entitled to have those proceedings in their hands. Those proceedings the right hon. Gentleman is pleased to call the records of an unsuccessful and failing negotiation. Sir, they are the records of a negotiation conducted with the greatest ability by my noble Friend (Lord John Russell); and if they have not resulted in a termination favourable to the objects of peace, the fault has not lain with my noble Friend, the fault has not lain with Her Majesty's Government, the fault has not lain with our ally the Emperor of the French, the fault has not lain with our ally to a certain degree I may say—that is as far as moral and political sentiment goes—I say that the fault has not lain with the Government of Austria, but the fault has really rested with the Government of Russia, to whom we are opposed. But the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) then called upon me to do that which he said had been done on similar occasions, namely, to come down with a
 844 845 846
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I have no difficulty whatever in answering the questions of my right hon. Friend. Her Majesty's Government certainly do not consider all the modes of solution of the question at issue as exhausted. We do consider that Austria is still charged, by her own voluntary assumption and the consent of the allies, with the task of endeavouring to discover means of bringing about an accommodation between the contending parties; and the conference, although at present suspended, is not finally closed; and if any proposal were made worthy of the country, or which was considered likely to lead to a satisfactory result, that conference would be ready to
 837
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that Admiral Stirling concluded last autumn a treaty with the Government of Japan, the stipulations of which were to the effect that British ships should be admitted into certain ports of Japan for the purpose of repair and refreshment. There were no commercial stipulations in the treaty, with one exception, which was, that whatever ports might now or hereafter be opened in Japan to ships of any other country, British ships and British subjects should be admitted into them, and should be placed in the enjoyment of any privileges and advantages which were then conceded to the citizens of the most favoured nations. The United States did conclude a treaty last year with Japan, by which certain ports were to be opened to American vessels, with the privilege of commerce in those ports, and therefore, by the treaty concluded by Admiral Stirling we were entitled, in the same ports, to all the privileges conceded to the citizens of the United States. He was not aware of any treaty having been concluded between Russia and Japan. He might add, however, that in our treaty, while we were to have all the privileges and advantages enjoyed by the most favoured nation, these words were added, "with the exception of those conceded to China and to Holland."
 MR. RICE  could assure the hon. Gentleman, that with regard to the principle of this Bill he was not prepared either to affirm it or otherwise. He was in favour of the Bill only in so far as it promoted a direct railway communication between London and Dovor. The hon. Gentleman has talked of the impatience of the gentlemen of Kent inducing them to come forward in 1853 with a line of their own; he (Mr. Rice) supported that line as a step towards a direct line from the metropolis to Dovor; and, indeed, he repeatedly told the promoters that, the line would be of no use unless it were carried on to Dovor. The hon. Gentleman has also spoken of the  bonâ fides 879
 MR. LUSHINGTON  said, that so long as the hon. Member for Sandwich (Mr. MacGregor) was chairman of the South Eastern Company, he had never lost any opportunity of opposing any Bill which had for its object the extension of railway communication in Kent; and when the hon. Gentleman came down here to say, that in opposing the passing of this Bill he had no other than a public object in view, he was obliged to look at his antecedents, and at his past connection with railways in Kent. It was well known that he had uniformly opposed the contemplated extension, and when he stated that the South Eastern Company had pledged itself to complete the railway communication in Kent, and that the Government ought to have negotiated with that company, and not with the landowners of the district, he could not help observing that the South Eastern Company has, on every occasion, eluded its obligations in that respect. When the Bill of the South Eastern Company was so suddenly withdrawn in 1847, it was understood that the Bill was to be taken up at the same stage in the House of Lords in the Session of 1848; but the hon. Gentleman, from that day to this, had never re-introduced the measure. Under these circumstances the East Kent Company's Bill was passed in 1853. That company had experienced great difficulties in the carrying out of its project, and it now came to Parliament to ask for the release of the money deposited in the Court of Chancery, in order to enable it to complete the construction of I the bridge over the Medway at Rochester, I which it was compelled to make within a certain time. The Bill for that purpose was taken before the Standing Orders Committee. It passed that Committee, It was then referred to a Select Committee of this House, and that Committee had reported in favour of their application. The hon. Gentleman, however, now moved, that
 880
 MR. H. ADAIR : As Chairman of the Select Committee to whom the East Kent Bill was referred, he must trouble the House with a few observations. He thought the Motion of the hon. Member for Sandwich was a very judicious and prudent one, because the House, before passing the Bill, should have an opportunity of seeing the printed evidence. He was of that opinion, because the question now raised was a very important one, and it was a question, moreover, which the House alone was able to decide. This was the first application that had been made to suspend this portion of the Standing Orders of the House. The whole object of the Bill was to release a sum of money which the House of Commons had judged it desirable should be held impounded to enforce the completion of a certain railway, the plans of which have been deposited in Parliament. Now, he thought that was a question of such importance that the House ought to be called upon to express an opinion as to the circumstances under which such a deviation from the usual practice of the House should be allowed. The object of the 136th Standing Order, was to ensure to the public the completion of lines of railway. He had no doubt that the Government were very anxious that the bridge over the Medway at Rochester should be constructed; he had not the slightest doubt that they wish their dockyards and arsenals to be brought into immediate communication with the metropolis; but still it was not shown to his satisfaction in the Committee that the promoters of this Bill were unable to complete the bridge at Rochester without the assistance of the Government. They had raised only an insignificant portion of the capital which they were authorised to raise under the provisions of the Act of 1853; they had laid out little or
 881
 MR. RICH  said, that if the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxford had been in his place, he would have told the House that the object of the Standing Order which it has now proposed to repeal was to secure that those who brought forward railway schemes had the requisite means for carrying out their projects, and that that object has been attained up to the present moment. Now, however, certain parties come forward and ask Parliament to abrogate that rule, and to establish what he might venture to call a very bad and dangerous precedent. If the promoters of the East Kent Railway had exerted themselves to carry out the objects of the Act of 1853—if they had exercised all the due diligence to fulfil their covenants—then, perhaps, they would have been entitled to ask the House to consider whether or not it should relax the Standing Order with the view of enabling them to execute their engagements; but it was notorious that they have not complied with the conditions of their Act, and he thought it would not be fair or just to extend an unusual indulgence to a company placed in such circumstances. The company had, however, disregarded every one of their covenants; and was that a state of things in which any company should be allowed to come before this House and ask to have a Standing Order relaxed, which was specially meant to enforce the fulfilment of contracts? If the House would have a little patience, and wait until the evidence was printed, they would find ample reason to suspect why no calls were made after the month of September, 1853, and why
 882 l. l. l.
 SIR EDWARD DERING  opposed the Amendment.
 MR. FITZROY  said, that the question before the House was a very simple one. Two propositions had been made by the hon. Member for Sandwich, both of which appear to him to be rather novel in character, and certainly most objectionable in principle. The first was, that this House, instead of referring private Bills to a small body upstairs, who would be able to take evidence and consider the matter dispassionately, should itself deal with such concerns and decide them according to the chance attendance of Members in this room. Such would be the result if the House, after exposing Members to the inconvenience and labour of attending a Committee upstairs, were to set aside their Report either against or in favour of a private Bill as of no value, and then proceed, as now proposed, to reverse their decision altogether. The Motion of the hon. Member, if it were carried, would lead to no practical end, for no one would trouble himself to read the evidence if it were printed? He hoped that the House would abide by the Report of the Select Committee, and decline to take such matters into its own hands.
 LORD SEYMOUR  thought the clause had better be postponed until the number of the members of the Board was decided on.
 LORD SEYMOUR  expressed an opinion that the clause gave too much power to a committee, composed, it might be, of only three persons. He thought the committee should be required to report to the Board, and have their proceedings confirmed.
 LORD SEYMOUR  wished to know whether, if any of these District Boards desired to run a sewer under a public building, the Metropolitan Board would have a distinct power to prohibit a work of that kind, which might be dangerous to the safety of the building; and he also wished to know why this particular number of thirty-six districts had been selected?
 MR. W. EWART  said, that his hon. Friend having called the attention of the Committee to the financial part of the question, he (Mr. Ewart) would direct their attention to that part of it. He meant the importance of establishing an educational test for candidates in this branch of the public service. If he were asked to define
 903 "So many languages he had in store, That only Fame shall speak of him in more." 904 l. l. Elevé 905
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I entirely concur in the observations of my hon. Friend behind me (Mr. Ewart), that the diplomatic and consular representatives of the Crown are most important agents of the public service. Upon them frequently depend not only the commercial but the political interests of the country they represent, and they therefore deserve the attention and support of Parliament and of the country. At the same time I must be allowed to say, that the tendency of the observations of the hon. Gentleman who made the Motion was not precisely in harmony with these sentiments. The hon. Gentleman quoted some old and trite censures from writers of past centuries with reference to the diplomatic body, which were certainly calculated to cast very unmerited obloquy and opprobrium upon diplomatic servants in general. He talked of their being spies—of their being persons whose business it was to deceive and not to be deceived—of their being persons whose want of veracity was proverbial. Now, I think it was hardly consistent with the opinions which I am sure the hon. Gentleman entertains, and which he expressed, of the high honour and integrity of the diplomatic servants of the Crown, to rake up these bygone, proverbial, and trite accusations, which—if they were ever true—applied to a state of things which has long since ceased to exist. When we talk of spies, I am sure, that in these days of newspapers and electric telegraphs a Government would throw away any money which it employed in the payment of spies. So far as spies of any foreign Power in this country are concerned, I believe it is perfectly true that every article of intelligence in  The Times 906 907 l. l. attaché l. l. 908 909 l. l. 910 911 912 913 attaché; 914
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the noble Lord had entirely failed to explain why
 915
 MR. R. PHILLIMORE  hoped that the hon. Gentleman would not press his Motion to a division, but would be satisfied with having produced a very interesting debate, and a very interesting statement from the noble Lord. He (Mr. Phillimore) only wished to make a remark with regard to our consular establishment. That establishment might deserve the eulogium passed on it by the noble Lord, but still it would be conducive to the public service, and for the advantage of the consuls themselves, if a rule was laid down that they should not at the same time exercise the functions of public officers and engage in private commercial speculation. No one who practised in the prize courts of this country but must know that in time of war conflicts must often arise between the duties of a consul as a public officer and his private interests as a merchant; and if a rule forbidding such a junction of duties was established, even if it was accompanied by increase of salaries, it would be a great advantage to the country.
 MR. WHITESIDE  entirely subscribed to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr. Ewart) on this subject, and considered that the hon. Gentleman had done the country good service by
 916 attaché
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, that a consul employed by the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) had negotiated with great success a valuable treaty with France with regard to the fisheries—a subject which had caused disputes between the fishermen of the two countries. That gentleman was the consul at Brest.
 MR. OTWAY  said, that it was highly important to establish a test of the fitness of public officers; but while he tendered his acknowledgment for the service the noble Viscount had done the country by so doing, he wished to advert to one or two topics mentioned in the speech of the noble Viscount. The noble Viscount had said that it had been always his desire, and the desire of other Ministers for Foreign Affairs, to give the various diplomatic posts to the men most fitted for them. Had that statement been borne out by the facts, he (Mr. Otway) would not, for a moment have intruded any observations on the House. Reference had been made in the course of the debate to a most interesting work published by a gentleman in the Foreign Office, and styled the  Foreign Office List 917 List attaché attaché 918 attaché précis attaché attaché; attachés statuquo attachés. attaché 919 attaché attaché
 MR. AYSHFORD WISE  said, that the noble Lord having promised to give the question further consideration, and having undertaken that the candidates for the diplomatic service should undergo an examination into their fitness and ability, he was disposed to be satisfied with having ventilated the subject and to leave the
 920
 MR. H. BAILLIE  objected to the withdrawal of the Motion, and said he would divide the House.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to cause the votes of the electors of Great Britain and Ireland to be taken by way of ballot at Parliamentary elections. He had been told, on more than one occasion since his notice had been on the paper, that he was bringing forward this question at a most disadvantageous time, when the thoughts of all were deeply interested in the vast war in which the country was, as he thought, rightly engaged, and their minds were perplexed and suffering from the effects of a series of victorious disasters. But he considered, on the other hand, that there never was a time when it was more needful that the people's House should be composed of Members freely and indifferently chosen by the people, and that this was not, nor ever could be, the case under the present electoral system. To those who hated the name of Parliamentary reform this war had charms, and to those who only assumed the garb of Reformers for expediency's sake and to please their constituents; the preoccupation of the minds of the people and rousing to arms this warlike nation was a seasonable relief; to many true and sincere reformers
 922 tristes et afflicti magnopere gaudentes 923 Red Book Burke's Peerage 924 925 The Times "If this estimate of the honesty and power of this Act be correct, and we have no doubt it is, the Act is one of those pompous professions meant to be inoperative." 926 The Times "1. Is there any reason to believe that money, bribery, treating, or any other corrupt means took
 927 
 "1. Bribery to a considerable extent. Many voters promised who never voted at all. "2. Intimidation. Landlords and customers controlled as usual. "3. The new Act caused no perceptible difference. "4. The screw was used in several places; especially where there were debts." "LIVERPOOL. "No. 1. Bribery.—Certainly not by the Liberals, and no proof of any by Tories. "No. 2. Intimidation.—In so large a constituency can give no reply as yet. After an analysis of the voting, now in preparation, we may, perhaps, give an opinion. "No. 3. The new Act, of course, can in no way touch undue influence, change of tradesmen, exclusive dealing, &c.; but, as regards the sale of votes, we imagine the fear of its operation acted beneficially. "No. 4. The Screw.—There was little or no canvass on either side. The parties were not prepared with books, which form the necessary machinery for putting on the screw." "NORWICH. "No. 1. Bribery.—Yes; in sums from 5 s. s. "No. 2. Intimidation.—None that I am aware of, unless by the screw. "No. 3. New Act.—As far as intimidation goes, mere waste paper. "No. 4. The Screw.—Yes; by both parties. The whole science of electioneering rests upon the knowledge of 'influences.'" "PORTSMOUTH. "No. 1. No treating or bribery. "No. 2. Intimidation.—Government influence so powerful that there has been no contested election for the last eighteen years. "No. 3. The Last Act.—No trial of it. No man in his senses would resort to it for intimidation. "No. 4. Screw.—The Government people gave it just one turn when a contest was threatened." 928 "Whiche'er your Majesty may please to name; Long cut, or short, to us is all the same." 929 930 "My belief is founded not merely on what I have heard from others, but my own observations. My belief is, that a system has been extensively pursued to deter the electors, by fear of injury to themselves and their families, from doing that which we heard read this morning—to elect freely and indifferently the person whom they may think fit to represent them in Parliament. Now, gentlemen, this is not a solitary case, it is the regular Tory practice; and you will hear, when you see
 931 Tabella vindex tacita libertatis. "I am desirous of completing the machinery of the constitution by two measures, which will invest the people with what was once their birthright. These measures are triennial Parliaments and vote by ballot, and, unless these measures be conceded, I cannot apprehend how the conduct of the Government can ever be in harmony with the feelings of the people." "It is true that I avowed myself a supporter of the ballot, because a number of little towns are enfranchised with the privilege of returning as many Members to Parliament as the shires, and the nomination of these Members is placed in a small knot of hard-hearted rulers, opposed to everything noble and national, and exercising a usurious influence over the tradesmen, who are at once their slaves and their victims." 932 933
 MAJOR FEILDEN  seconded the Motion, and said, that he had long been an advocate for the ballot. Having been in Belgium, in America, in France, in Sardinia, and in Switzerland, in all of which countries the practice of secret voting prevailed, he had uniformly found order, peace, and propriety prevailing at the elections there; while in this country, he was ashamed to say—and he spoke from experience—he had observed disorder, violence, and intimidation prevailing to an extent which was a disgrace to the nation. At his own election for Blackburn, large bodies of bludgeonmen from other towns were brought into the borough, who maltreated his supporters, and their violent conduct deterred many of the electors who had promised him their votes from going up to the polling booths. He was, therefore, desirous that the ballot should be established in this country, and would give his cordial support to the Motion. Major Feilden then read extracts from depositions and evidence taken immediately after his election, from parties prosecuting for damage to person and property in the borough, and for which he complained that there was no remedy, but at such an expense as to deter most men from encountering it. Investigation and punishment seldom followed upon such acts, and even when they did, the crime was rarely brought home to the real perpetrator and instigator of the misdemeanor. If perfect freedom of conscience was un-English, then perhaps it might be said that so also was secret voting, but not otherwise; and if every secret act was unmanly, then voting by ballot at clubs might be said to be such also. In the case of his own election, in a small constituency of about 1,300 electors, only 631 had recorded their votes in his favour, though he had promises previously from between 700 and 800; and had it not been for the undaunted heroism and determination of his friends, in the opinion of the great majority of the electors, Blackburn must have been misrepresented by the return of his opponent. He concluded by saying, that he looked upon the elective franchise as a trust, of which conscience alone was the test of its being
 934
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he had listened with attention to the speech of his hon. Friend the Member for Bristol (Mr. H. Berkeley), and, as his hon. Friend always succeeded in dressing up his case with great ingenuity and novelty, he had not been surprised to hear him introduce questions which it would be difficult to see had any connection with the ballot—such, for instance, as the state of the army in the Crimea and administrative reform—combining the various subjects together much as an advertiser in the newspaper, who headed his advertisement "War in the Crimea," and ended by a panegyric upon the merits of the article he wished to sell to the public. The hon. Gentleman had said much against the aristocracy of both sides of the House. Now, he (Lord Seymour) had listened to his hon. Friend with great surprise, because he had always considered that the House of Berkeley had been somewhat mixed up in certain proceedings of the aristocracy with regard to elections. He remembered the time when they were called "the Ameers of Scinde," and when it was said that their mode of conducting the elections in their county was characterised by so much aristocratic arrogance, that it was not to be tolerated by the freemen of England. The hon. Gentleman said he knew nothing of either party, and called them "pot and kettle," but what the hon. Gentleman was between the two he (Lord Seymour) was unable to say. Following the example of the hon. Gentleman, he would not enter into the old arguments upon this question, but he would give his vote against the Motion of
 935 l. The Lancet 936 The Lancet
 MR. GORDON  said, he felt the reluc-
 937 938 Cries of 939
 MR. BENTINCK  thought the hon. Gentleman ought to have been in the position to give the name of the party who had written the letter he had quoted before he ventured to read it to the House; because, as the matter at present stood, they were left in doubt whether the writer was one of the "bigoted Tories" who had been described by the hon. Member for Bristol, or one of the pure Liberals who sat on the other side of the House. The noble Lord the Member for Totness had talked of the difficulty of inducing voters to go to the poll, and the hon. Member for Beverley had ascribed that difficulty to a system of intimidation which prevented them giving their votes. He was satisfied that if the matter were inquired into it would be found that intimidation was not the cause which induced the people to abstain from recording their votes; and as several cases had been instanced on the one side, he would give them an instance on the other. A remarkable thing occurred connected with the last election for
 940
 MR. P. O'BRIEN  said, he could satisfy the curiosity of the noble Lord (Lord Seymour) as to the position of the hon. Member for Bristol between the pot and the kettle—the hon. Member was the steam; he represented the force of public opinion, which must be brought to bear strongly upon the House before they could hope to carry the measure. But he rose to call attention to the fact that no allusion had been made to the effect which the proposed measure might have on Ireland, where intimidation at elections was practised to a far greater extent than in any other part of Her Majesty's dominions. Under a late arrangement the registration of voters in Ireland was compulsory, and whether a man attended at the registration sessions or not he was placed on the list of voters. Formerly a man might escape the consequences that would follow if he exercised the franchise in a manner conducive to his interests and in accordance with the dictates of his conscience, by declining to register his vote, but he was now obliged to do so, and was thereby exposed to an ordeal which it was impossible for any man unacquainted with Irish constituencies to understand. In the county which he represented one man had, within six months,
 941
 MR. BLAND  read a letter addressed by an hon. Member of that House (Mr. O. Gore) in answer to a memorial which had been forwarded to him by an Irish tenant of his, refusing to retain him any longer as a tenant, in consequence of the vote which the tenant had given at the last election for the county of Sligo. He had also been informed that since the last election for the county of Cavan a great number of notices to quit had been served by Lord Farnham and Mr. A. Nesbitt, on tenants of theirs, in consequence of the votes which they had given at that election. These, he believed, were intended as  ex post facto
 SIR SAMUEL BIGNOLD  said, in reference to a statement which had been made by the hon. Member for Bristol in regard to the late election for Norwich,
 942
 MR. MICHELL  said, he had an Amendment to propose to the Motion of the hon. Member for Bristol, which would widen its scope and greatly increase its efficiency: the effect of it would be that in all divisions in that House the votes of Members should also be taken by ballot. There was a great talk in the country just now about administrative reform; but he was convinced that the very best administrative reform which could be adopted would be to do away with the necessity of having a patronage-feeder in that House. That would be the effect of adopting vote by ballot in the divisions of that House. There would be no more places to be given away then for voting for this Member or that Member, and constituents would find it of little use making applications to their Members; for, if they did, there would be nothing for them. The
 943 l. l.
 SIR JOHN FITZGERALD  supported the motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Bristol on the ground that the ballot was required for the protection of the voter.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I should be sorry if my hon. Friend the Member for Bristol were to imagine it possible, which he might do from what he has said, that he had convinced me by the amusing, though I think not very argumentative speech which he has made to the House this evening. In the very short address which I shall make to the House, I shall expose myself, no doubt, to the reproach which I have often heard made by the advocates of the ballot, that those who oppose it do nothing but reproduce old arguments; but believing that the arguments
 944 945 reductio ad absurdum 946
 MR. DILLWYN , amid loud cries of "Divide," expressed his intention to support the Motion.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  replied: In answer to the allusion made by the noble Lord the Member for Totness (Lord Seymour) to elections in Gloucestershire, in which certain members of his (Mr. Berkeley's) own family were concerned, he begged to state that he had never interfered personally in the proceedings in question, and that if he had refrained that night from touching on those proceedings in the course of his argument, it only was from a feeling that the House would have considered it bad taste on his part to refer to them.
 LORD SEYMOUR  observed that it was an important question where the outfall of drainage should be. They had been for years saying that no drainage ought to go into the Thames; and he thought that a clause should be brought up, if there was no provision already in the Bill to the effect, declaring that after a certain date no drainage should be allowed to go into the Thames between certain limits.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  did not think the system proposed in the clause would involve those conflicting interests that his noble Friend seemed to apprehend. He thought it would be exceedingly inconvenient if persons in a particular district were to be compelled to wait on a central Board at a distance whenever a sewer was to be constructed, instead of having the matter settled by an authority to be found at their own doors. If this provision were rejected, and in its place a central Board appointed, the Act would, in his opinion, become unworkable. Besides, the noble Lord might depend upon it, that the inhabitants of the metropolis were determined to have the management of their own local works, and, unless the management of the sewers was intrusted to the vestries and local Boards, the Bill would never be carried into effect.
 MR. LAYARD : I cordially agree in all the sentiments which have been expressed by the right hon. Gentleman. It appears to me that the question is one of such vital importance that, although I consider the notice which I have given also of some importance, I shall undoubtedly give way to the discussion which the right hon. Gentleman proposes to raise on Thursday.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I avail myself of this opportunity of making a few observations without having given any notice, a custom which, I think, ought never to be abused. I confess it appears to me that the present position of affairs is very critical, and that the honour and reputation of the House of Commons are concerned in not passing them by without notice. This House will, perhaps, anticipate me, but I more particularly allude to what took place in this House last night. Upon that occasion the language of Government was, to my mind, so equivocal, and their demeanour so discouraging, that I confess I myself shrunk from the responsibility of acceding, under these circumstances, to the Resolution of the House to adjourn for the recess, for an unusual period, without some means being taken by which—I may use the term—the heart of the country may be reanimated, and by which may be obtained some more clear and explicit information of what the position of the country is with regard to the great question of peace and war than they at present possess. Sir, I say that I think that this is a question which principally affects the honour and reputation of this House. The House will, perhaps, recollect that in the year 1853 there were, as we were informed, negotiations of great moment then taking place, on the issue of which the question of peace or war depended. Now, under those circumstances, great and natural as was the curiosity of the country to know in what position it really was placed with reference to a contingency so awful—ready as many Members of the House were, in the fulfilment of unquestionably their highest duty, to obtain information from Government during that Session of 1853 on that important question—the House will recollect that it was totally impossible to obtain any opportunity to discuss that important question, because, upon all occasions, those who were anxious to obtain information, and to invite the opinion of this House on those important circumstances, were always informed that negotiations were going on, and that any remarks in this House might have an injurious effect on the course of our diplomacy. Well, Sir, the House will recollect in what that forbearance ended. There was silence in this House during the whole of that Session, notwithstanding the
 892 893 894
 MR. CHARLES BUTLER  wished to know whether there was any clause in the Bill to prevent rivers and watercourses being contaminated by sewers running into them?
 MR. H. BARING  did not see why the General Metropolitan Board should not have the management of these works? The power given to the District Boards by this clause was enormous.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the question was, whether the local sewerage should be entrusted to one central body or to smaller bodies in the several districts, and he must say he was inclined to prefer the plan laid down in the Bill to that proposed by the noble Lord (Viscount Ebrington). He thought the Committee would do wisely in adopting the system that was most consonant with the wishes of the inhabitants of the metropolis, and he could not believe that the difficulties which lay in the way of working that system were so great as the noble Lord seemed to think. At the same time, he should have been satisfied if the districts had been fewer in number.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he thought the powers of taxation conferred by the clause were far too large. It was very dangerous to give great taxing powers to a committee of not more than three members, and he hoped the right hon. Baronet would take care to give security against abuse of such power.
 MR. MASTERS SMITH  wished to hear from the right hon. Gentleman what the definition of a main sewer was?
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that all parties were agreed as to the principle of Hobhouse's Act, and no difference of opinion really existed between the noble Lord and the right hon. Baronet.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  never expected to hear a Member for Marylebone in that House endeavouring to supersede a system of local government by one of centralisation. The noble Lord was not content with throwing the sewerage into the hands
 887
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, the main sewers to be dealt with under the Bill were all mentioned in a Parliamentary paper, which had been laid on the table of the House. That document would be included in a schedule.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he should agree to the Amendment.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he looked upon this as one of the most important clauses of the Bill. It had not been inserted without due consideration, and in the firm belief that it was absolutely ne-
 885
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that the question with respect to the division of localities into districts had been fully considered. The Bill had to deal with large areas already divided, and he had adapted, as far as he could, the new legislation to the existing divisions. The large drainage of the metropolis had failed under one Board, and he had endeavoured to make the existing divisions of the metropolis as useful as possible for the purpose. Considering that the population of the metropolis amounted to 2,500,000 persons, and was increasing every year, he did not believe that the number of the District Boards would be found too many. It had been asked why such large powers were given to them; but if he threw on them the duty of certain drainage he must also give them sufficient powers to execute that duty, and those powers were not more arbitrary than existed in the City of London. There were about 1,500 miles of streets in the metropolis, not reckoning little courts or alleys; and there were only 934 miles of sewerage; so that there were 566 miles of streets without any sewerage whatever. That was under the system of centralisation. Taking the number of houses at 306,000, he calculated that there were 150,000 houses without sewerage in front or back, into which the refuse of those houses could possibly be drained. That was a fact startling enough to induce him to press the clause under consideration, in order that the local districts might do that which the centralised authority had not
 888
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  explained that the districts had been selected in this way—he first of all took the parishes  sole 889
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he would take care that such security should be given, and he would bring up the clause again for reconsideration.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that he had promised, after the Bill passed through Committee, to introduce a measure for the purpose of amending Hobhouse's Act; but it had been suggested to him to insert in
 884
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  thought it would be best to leave the Vestries and District Boards to elect such persons as they thought proper. He proposed to bring up a clause to provide that the election of the members of the Board should take place in great parishes by wards, which should be framed in conformity with the Municipal Corporation Act.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL,  in reply to an observation from Viscount EBRINGTON, said, it was impossible for him at present to say what should be the exact number of the members of the Board; but, whether it was fixed at thirty or at forty-five, he thought nine members, as proposed by the present clause, would constitute a fair  quorum.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that the previous clause relating to the appointment of the chairman of the Metropolitan Board had already been postponed, as a suggestion had been made that, instead of the members of the Board sending in three names to the Secretary of State for him to select from, they should elect their chairman themselves. Under these circumstances, he proposed that Clauses 27 and 28, which had a connection with the appointment of the chairman, should likewise be postponed.
 SIR B. HALL  said, that he would propose a clause tending to carry out the views of the noble Lord. It would be difficult to fix a date at which the drainage of sewage into the Thames should cease, but a clause might be introduced to provide that works should be commenced for the purpose, and that they should be finished as soon as possible.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he should have no objection to introduce a clause to provide that where District Boards were not inclined to do certain works, it should be in the power of the General Board, if it was thought necessary, to carry them on.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  inquired whether the members of the Board were to have any qualification?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  thought some protection should be given to owners of property as well as to ratepayers, by enabling them to inspect the books.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  regarded the present as a doubtful scheme, and conceived that it would have been better to have established two, three, or four bodies exercising supreme power in their several districts than thirty-six, each of which, having separate staffs, would occasion enormous cost, and lead to every possible sort of collision.
 SIR J. V. SHELLEY  quite agreed with the noble Lord that the sewerage should be carried away from the metropolis, but he was quite opposed to the pollution of the Thames, or any other streams and rivers. The sewerage could be carried away by arterial drains to an outfall provided in lands for the purpose.
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  agreed with the noble Lord who had just spoken, that the inhabitants of every part of the metropolis were anxious to have the charge of their own district works. He did not see that such difficulties attended the operation of the clause as the noble Lord (Viscount Ebrington) seemed to imagine. The system would soon work itself into shape, and the different parishes would be found going on in a most amicable and practical spirit, the different parish surveyors, of course, acting with a knowledge of the rules laid down by the central Board.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  wished to call the attention of the House to the inconvenience that he feared would arise from the operation of this clause. In the Fleet valley, for instance, there were nine separate districts; and, when it was considered that the sewers would require to be constructed on one system, it became obvious that the arrangement proposed in the clause would be very inconvenient. He knew it was said that everything done by the District Boards would be under the sanction of the Metropolitan Board of' Works. Now, that sanction would be either a matter of course, in which case it would fail to secure efficiency; or, else it would involve double toil and trouble, and be equivalent to doing the work twice over. The central Board was to interpose, where necessary, for the purpose of securing harmony of co-operation among the different districts; but, he contended, that just as much correspondence, just as much heartburning and contention, would be the result of such a control, as would be experienced if the whole works were placed under the direct management of a centralised authority. It was almost impossible to conceive that the thirty districts included in the Bill could rightly carry out the works intrusted to them, considering the differences in the natural position of the parishes, and other circumstances that would stand in the way. He objected, also, to the multiplication of officers and engineers that would be required under this provision of the Bill. For these reasons, looking at the inconvenience arising from the different forms and shapes of the parishes, at the manner in which their boundaries stood, with the natural "lay" of the ground, and also at the enormous multiplication of offices, and the increase of taxation that would be unnecessarily imposed on the ratepayers, he would sug-
 886
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, the right hon. Baronet placed the House in this dilemma—that they must either submit to be governed by a central Board, or adopt a far too great number of minor Boards calculated upon far too small area limits. Both these systems were evils, but he thought one central Board the lesser evil of the two. If the right hon. Baronet would constitute seven or eight minor Boards of reasonable dimensions and within reasonable limits, he would be quite willing to vest in them powers even greater than those the right hon. Baronet proposed to give to the minor Boards in the Bill. He would not, however, press the matter to a division.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, if that was done, the question would arise where the drainage was to go. The matter carried away by the drains was no doubt of a most fertilising nature, and means ought to be taken to turn it to account for the purpose of fertilising our fields; but, under present circumstances, he thought the least mischievous mode of getting rid of it was by turning temporarily the drainage of towns into the streams, taking care that it reached the streams below the points where the water was taken for drinking or domestic purposes.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  suggested that this would be done by inserting the words "owner of property," along with "churchwardens, overseers," &c. as entitled to inspect books.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  trusted that full opportunity would be afforded of discussing the amended provisions from Hobhouse's Act, proposed to be incorporated in the present Bill.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  explained that in the observations he made he had reference to more distant watercourses than the Thames.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, according to the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, a scene was enacted here last night—[ cheers and laughter 895 896 897
 MR. DISRAELI  cautioned the House against agreeing without due consideration to this proposition, the effect of which would be that they would soon not know what business was going on between the two Houses. In all popular ceremonies a
 973
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he should attach more weight to the observations of the right hon. Gentleman, if any Member could tell him that he at any time understood any Message which was delivered from the other House.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  asked in what manner Messages from the other House would be communicated to hon. Members, if this Resolution were adopted?
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the clerk of one House would communicate Messages to the clerk of the other House at the bar; and it would then be the duty of the clerk receiving the Message to communicate it at the earliest opportunity, without interrupting the public business, to the Speaker, by whom it would be made known to the House.
 MR. BARROW , in seconding the Motion, expressed his concurrence with the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire in the opinion that the negotiations in progress at Vienna were inconsistent with the continuance of the war, and his belief that a large majority of the people of this country were anxious that the suspense existing with respect to those negotiations should be terminated. He was fully alive to the deplorable consequences of war—to the misery which it inflicted upon private families,
 1010
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that notwithstanding the formidable language of the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, he was not at all inclined to shrink from proposing the Amendment of which he had given notice:—Indeed, the right hon. Gentleman's speech had convinced him of the propriety of submitting such an Amendment to the House, for the right hon. Gentleman had in his speech plainly stated the intention which he believed had lurked under his Motion. He (Sir F. Baring) would, in the first place, state the reasons which had induced him to steal a portion of the language of the right hon. Gentleman. He had concurred in the views expressed in that House by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, that until the final and formal close of the Conferences of Vienna there was no necessity for the expression of any opinion on the part of the House with reference to the negotiations. But the state of affairs was entirely altered when the right hon. Gentleman's notice appeared upon the paper—the House was then compelled to pronounce an opinion of some kind or other. The right hon. Gentleman, with his usual dexterity, had combined a Motion for an Address to the Crown
 1011 1012 1013 1014 1015 1016 1017
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, that although he could not at that time move the Amendment on the Motion of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Portsmouth of which he had given notice, it would be convenient to the House that he should then state the reasons which would induce him to bring it forward at the proper time. There were two Resolutions, to one of which he was required to give his assent. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, by the terms of his Resolution, to a great extent, and entirely by his speech, had made it impossible that he (Sir W, Heathcote) should vote with him, because, far from desiring to shut the door to future negotiations, he (Sir W. H.) was most anxious to see the thread taken up again; and his quarrel with the hon. Gentlemen opposite was that that thread had been too abruptly broken. He then had to consider whether the Resolution of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Portsmouth expressed his opinion. He gathered from the right hon. Baronet's speech that he intended to express very much the same meaning as he (Sir W. Heathcote) wished to see embodied in the Resolution, and he therefore hoped the right hon. Baronet would not object to the introduction of his Amendment; but, as the Resolution stood, it seemed to him to be somewhat open to the charge of ambiguity and uncertainty which had been brought against the Government. In order to get rid of that objection, he should propose to insert after the word "hostilities," "and still cherishing the desire that the communications which are in progress may arrive at a successful issue," &c.; of the concluding sentence, which was common
 1018 1019 1020 1021 1022 prestige 1023
 MR. KER SEYMER  thought that the duty of answering the speech of his right hon. Friend the Member for the University (Sir W. Heathcote) devolved upon the Government, who stated the other night that they were prepared to meet the proposition of the right hon. Member for Manchester with a direct negative. He was one of those who regretted the withdrawal of that Motion; not that he thought the discussion free from danger, but the danger arose, not from its effect upon the Vienna Conferences, for he had no faith in them, but in its probable effect upon the vigorous prosecution of the war, if a large number of hon. Members had assented to the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman. He regretted the withdrawal of the Motion, because the advantage of that debate would have been to show who were on the side of England and who were on the side of Russia. The House, then, had before them the proposition of the right hon. Member for Bucks; and, at first, he (Mr. Seymer) felt some doubt in joining in the Resolution of his right hon. Friend, and, perhaps, in a party point of view he had not chosen a very good moment for it. The pear was not yet ripe, although the proceedings of last Monday had hastened its maturity. The question was one, however, far above party considerations. The greatest danger was lest a large portion of our population should feel that they had ground for discontent against the Government and Parliament of this country. A
 1024 1025 prestige 1026 1027
 MR. WILKINSON  objected to the assumption which ran through the speeches of the hon. Member for Manchester and hit Friends, that all who were in favour of the prosecution of the war were opposed to the obtaining peace; because, he believed, the surest way to obtain peace was vigorously to prosecute the war. There were, no doubt two or three causes for the state of affair in which they found themselves, but he attributed the war, in a great measure, to the conduct of a certain party in this country who were the strenuous advocates of peace upon any terms. He did not say that the erroneous supposition, that there was no chance of an intimate alliance between England and France, had not had its effect, because the Emperor of the French had just committed an act which, however necessary it might have been, was abhor rent to the lovers of constitutional Government, and all Englishmen were such; but the late Emperor of Russia had likewise
 1028 "Since this despatch was written I have heard from the Austrian Minister that the Emperor has spoken to him of the conversation which he had held with me. I told Sir Hamilton Seymour—His Majesty said—that the new Ministry appears to me to be strong, and that I am anxious for its duration—although, to say the truth, as regards England, I have learnt that it is the country with which we must be allied. We must not lean to this or that party." 1029
 THE MARQUESS OF GRANBY  observed, that before deciding the question whether we should consent to a peace or remain at war, it was essential to consider the intentions of Russia, the danger to be apprehended from that Power, and whether she meditated aggression or not. On a former occasion he had ventured to tell the House that by the admission of Lord Aberdeen, ever since the Treaty of Adrianople, twenty-six years ago, Russia had had it in her power to march on Teheran on the one hand, or on Constantinople on the other, whenever she might choose. He had met with no reply in the House; but people out of doors were ready with the obvious answer, that the time of Russia had not arrived. It was not until 1853 that Russia found her opportunity for making her descent on Constantinople. He found, however, in  The Times "If the Russian vessels had sailed for Constantinople with 20,000 men on the day after Prince Menchikoff's return from his mission, the Emperor Nicholas would have realised his predictions of making Constantinople his southern capital." l. "Within a few weeks his (the Emperor's) troops will receive orders to pass the frontiers of the empire, not in order to make war upon the Sultan—a war which it is repugnant to his Majesty to
 1030 "It is not without extreme and profound regret that the Emperor finds himself forced into adopting such a measure. Even whilst adopting it, he still intends to remain faithful to the fundamental principles of his policy, that of not wishing to subvert the Ottoman empire." "As regards the solid guarantee expected by the Porte, Reschid Pacha must well know that it is utterly impossible for the Four Powers to enter into any such engagements." 1031 1032
 MR. ROBERT PHILLIMORE  said, that it was his intention to vote for the Amendment of the hon. Baronet his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford, and he was anxious to be allowed to explain the reasons for seconding a vote which he was well aware would be unpopular. He was one of those who had always been of opinion that this country had never embarked in a war which, in its origin, was more just, more necessary, or more honourable to her, than the one in which she was at present engaged. The hon. Member for Lambeth had said that because he was for a vigorous prosecution
 1033 "Ut lethargicus hic, cum Fit pugil, et medicum urget." 1034 1035 "For never two such nations did contend Without much fall of blood; whose guiltless drops Are every one a woe, and sore complaint 'Gainst him whose wrongs give edge unto the sword Which makes such waste in brief mortality"— 1036
 MR. GLADSTONE : * 1037 1038 1039 1040 "At the same time, he did not pretend to exclude peremptorily the consideration of every proposal tending to the point of limitation:" se rattachant au principe de la limitation. Protocols of the Conferences at Vienna 1041 1042 primâ facie 1043
 MR. DISRAELI ; I did not treat the concession as insignificant, but I only said that I did not think there was any difficulty in it.
 MR. GLADSTONE : I accept, not only with willingness but with pleasure, the
 1044 1045 1046 1047 1048 1049 1050 1051 condition essentielle et irrévocable condition essentielle et irrévocable. status quo 1052 status quo "Her Majesty's Government have no hesitation in stating the guarantees which, in their opinion, and that of the French Government, are essential to secure the tranquillity of Europe from future disturbances. These guarantees are naturally suggested by the dangers to guard against which they are required. Thus, Russia has taken advantage of the exclusive right which she had acquired, by treaty, to watch over the relations of Wallachia and Moldavia with the suzerain power, to enter those provinces as if they were part of her own territory. Again, the privileged frontier of Russia in the Black Sea has enabled her to establish in those waters a naval power which, in the absence of any counter-balancing force, is a standing menace to the Ottoman empire. The uncontrolled possession by Russia of the principal mouth of the Danube has created obstacles to the navigation of that great river which seriously affect the general commerce of Europe. Finally, the stipulations of the Treaty of Koutchouk-Kainardji
 1053 status quo ante bellum 1054 in extenso 1055 1056 1057 1058 1059 1060 1061 1062 1063 1064 1065 prestige; 1066 1067 1068 1069 1070 "The idea of the general is that of the newspapers of his country, and that is what I apprehend in all these concerns. Complete success in the attainment of the object will not satisfy that people. Somebody must be humiliated. I cannot bear to be a party to such transactions." 1071 1072 1073 1074 1075
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, although there are many parts of the speech of my right hon. Friend in which I cannot possibly
 1076 1077 1078 1079 1080 1081 1082 1083 1084 1085 "In the eyes of England and of her allies, the best and only admissible conditions of peace would be those which, being most in harmony with the honour of Russia, should at the same time be sufficient for the security of Europe, and for preventing the return of complications such as that the settlement of which is now in question." 1086 1087 1088 1089 1090 1091
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : I must, through you, Sir, entreat the indulgence of the House to preface the question which I am about to submit to the First Lord of the Admiralty, with a few, but to me most necessary words. To no pain more acute could I render myself liable, than the reflection that, by any expressions of mine, I had justly incurred the suspicion of holding the army in consideration and honour inferior to that in which I regard my own profession. No jealousies exist between the branches of the United Service—their only rivalry lies in the fervour of their mutual desire to promote the success of each other. I am influenced by one motive, to prevent an irregularity becoming a precedent, and to vindicate and confirm the position held by usage and prescriptive right of the navy. I wish, therefore, to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty, why, on the late occasion of the distribution of the Crimean medals by the Sovereign, or by what inadvertence, the navy were displaced from their prescriptive position in front of the army, and the marines from their right of precedence of the 50th Regiment?
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the position of the navy and marines on the occasion arose from no inadvertence; but as it was the great object of the Admiralty to promote the best possible feeling between the seamen and marines, it was, therefore, thought more convenient and more in accordance with the feelings of men who had served, fought, and bled together in the Crimea, that they should also be formed together when receiving the orders to which their gallant conduct had entitled them.
 MR. W. EWART  inquired of the Under Secretary for War whether any programme would be laid before the public of the sort of military education, practical as well as theoretical, to be prescribed for the troops in the encampment at Aldershot; especially, whether it will be endeavoured to give them instruction in details connected with hutting, cooking, food, fire, discovery of supplies of water, and other practical matters fitted to increase their resources and exercise their intelligence as soldiers?
 MR. OTWAY  said, that as the noble Lord at the head of the Government had stated in the House that negotiations were now going on, and were intrusted to "our ally to a certain extent"—Austria, and as one of the conditions of peace with Russia related to the state of the Principalities of Wallachia and Moldavia, he wished to know whether it was true that the people of the Principalities of Wallachia and Moldavia had been subjected to martial law by the Austrian authorities; and, if so, whether that step had been taken with the previous knowledge and concurrence of Her Majesty's Government; also, whether any communications had passed on this subject between Her Majesty's Government, or any agents of the Government, and the Austrian Government, or any of its agents; and, if so, whether the noble Lord had any objection to lay such communications on the table of the House?
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, the militia regiments at Aldershot would have the full benefit of the educational system in the army. Schools would be established, the men would be placed under the care of efficient schoolmasters, while chaplains would be appointed to take charge of their spiritual instruction. With regard to education of a more practical kind, the first object, of course, was to teach the militia regiments how to act together in large bodies; but he had no doubt that the general commanding the camp would give all the prominence it deserved to the important question of teaching the troops how to hut themselves, and the other points referred to in the question.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Her Majesty's Government was informed, in the course of the present month, by information coming principally from our consuls in those provinces, that the general officer commanding the Austrian troops in the Principalities had proclaimed martial law, Lord Westmorland asked for information upon that subject from General Hess at Vienna, and the reply he received was that the Austrian Government had no information on the matter, that they had given no instructions for the order in question,
 971
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  inquired whether it was true that Mr. Phinn, the Member for Bath, had been appointed to the office of Assistant Secretary to the Board of Admiralty?
 MR. WILSON  said, he believed so.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  then moved, that a writ be issued for the election of a burgess to serve in Parliament for the City of Bath in the room of Mr. Phinn,
 1188
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the office Mr. Phinn had accepted was not an office under the Crown, but under the Admiralty, and his acceptance did not, therefore, necessarily vacate his seat. He believed, however, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had already taken steps for that purpose.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  asked if the right hon. Gentleman meant to say that Mr. Phinn had applied for the stewardship of the Chiltern Hundreds?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, Mr. Phinn had applied for the office in question, and a grant had been made, but he could not say whether it had gone through all the official forms. There could be no doubt, however, that the office would be conferred upon Mr. Phinn, in order to allow him to vacate his seat.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  stated that, in appointing Mr. Phinn to the office of Assistant Secretary to the Board of Admiralty, he told him that, as the person holding the post did not change with the Government, he must not again appear in his place in Parliament. Hon. Gentlemen opposite, therefore, need not be under any apprehension of Mr. Phinn recording his vote that evening.
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  believed that the hon. Baronet in making this Motion was actuated, not by a desire of preventing the hon. and learned Member for Bath attending in his place to-night and recording his vote, but because he believed that the hon. and learned Member had really vacated his seat. ["No."] He admitted that it was wrong to suppose that the acceptance of the office of Assistant Secretary to the Board of Admiralty necessarily implied that Mr. Phinn could no longer hold his seat; but they had now learned from the Chancellor of the Exchequer that Mr. Phinn had accepted an office—the stewardship of the Chiltern Hundreds—for the express purpose of enabling him to vacate his seat, although the right hon. Gentleman was not certain whether the grant had been finally completed or not. Now, he apprehended that it was not the making out the grant, but the acceptance of the office, which vacated the seat; and that, therefore, the hon. Baronet the Member for Petersfield was perfectly in order in the Motion he had made.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he had had some experience as Chancellor of the Exchequer, and would therefore state that the mode of dealing with the Chiltern Hundreds was this:—If a person wished to vacate his seat in Parliament, he applied to the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the stewardship of the Chiltern Hundreds, and it was in the discretion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to give the office or not as he pleased. If the application was to be granted, the practice was for the Chancellor of the Exchequer to write a letter to the applicant, stating that he had conferred upon him the office in question—and it was the receipt of that letter that constituted the acceptance of the office. He could not say whether that form had been gone through in the present instance or not.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  considered that it was entirely immaterial whether all the official forms had been gone through, or whether the patent or grant had been formally completed. According to law, and the invariable usage of that House, whenever an office was granted under the Crown, and the person had intimated his acceptance of it, from that moment his seat was vacant, and a writ was moved for as soon as possible. Such appeared to him to be the position of the present case.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said that having held the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer, he might be allowed to make a few remarks upon the point before the House. There could be no doubt that if a man applied for an office, and the office was given to him, or if a man was offered an office, and he accepted it, it was not necessary that he should go through all the official forms in order to vacate his seat. But there must be two parties to every transaction of this kind; there must be an application on the one side, and a conferring of the office on the other; and it was no proof that Mr. Phinn had vacated his seat to say that he had applied for the stewardship of the Chiltern Hundreds, and would probably get it. They must wait until they had evidence before them that the office had been conferred upon him, and that he had accepted it.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would state exactly what had occurred. He received that morning an application from Mr. Phinn for the office of the Chiltern Hundreds in order to enable him to vacate his seat in consequence of his appointment as Assistant Secretary to the Board of Admiralty. The grant of an office under the Crown was brought to him for signature, and he signed it that morning; but he could not say whether the grant had already reached Mr. Phinn, and therefore could not answer to the House for its actual acceptance. He knew, however, that directions had been given for its transmission to Mr. Phinn, and he believed it was the intention of the Secretary to the Treasury to move a writ before the House rose.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, his experience as Chancellor of the Exchequer was not so long as he could have wished, but he had the opportunity upon several occasions of conferring offices under the Crown, and he thought it ought to be understood that when an application was made and granted the office had been accepted.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he withdrew his motion, as his object would be attained by having the writ moved for before the holidays.
 MR. ESMONDE  asked whether the Burmese medals had yet been forwarded for distribution to the troops entitled to them?
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, that 2,289
 1192
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  thought the language just made use of by the hon. Member was not quite the language to be applied to an old and deserving public servant. It might be all very well for hon. Members to use such epithets one to another in the course of debate, but he was sure the hon. Gentleman's good feeling must tell him that it was not the way in which to speak of an absent public servant. Sir R. Gardiner's period of service had expired, and he was only going on performing the duties of his office until his successor was appointed. The hon. Gentleman had no doubt referred to the complaints which were made of Sir R. Gardiner's refusal to permit the exportation of certain things which were considered to be articles of war, consisting of iron tubes, he believed, for the boilers of steam-vessels, and which had been imported into Gibraltar without his knowledge, contrary to a regulation which required that the permission of the Governor should be obtained in all such cases. The instructions which Sir R. Gardiner received from home were to grant permission for exportation in this instance, but for the future not to allow the standing regulations to be departed from.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the case referred to was only one of many cases which he had had to represent to the Colonial Office. As the noble Lord had entered into the circumstances of this case, he thought, in fairness to the commercial house concerned, he had a right to state that, not only had the Governor done what the noble Lord stated, but he afterwards gave to another mercantile house that permission which he refused to the first.
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, I know well the difficulty which any private and ordinary Member of this House has to face, when he attempts to occupy your attention, however briefly, after such displays of eloquence and debating power as those which on the present and preceding night have so well and worthily sustained the reputation of the English Parliament. At such a time, and on such a question, I speak only from a deep sense of responsibility and of duty: I do so because, long as this war and the negotiations precedent to it have lasted, the present is the first occasion on which it has been possible for this House to express, with any prospect of a practical result, its opinion on the course of policy to which we as a nation stand committed. I accept, therefore, the Motion of my right hon. Friend—a Motion which
 1242 1243 1244 1245 1246 Prince "We must never lose sight of this maxim—either make a man your friend, or put it out of his power to be your enemy. He may revenge a slight injury, but a great one deprives him of the power of revenge. Hence the injury should be so great, that we should have nothing to dread from his vengeance." 1247 1248 1249 1250 casus belli 1251
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  thought the House had been perfectly right in deciding at once upon the Resolution, which was one of great importance to be settled, and declaring the opinion of the House as to whose hands the Government should be intrusted. But now that it had decided a great question as between parties, it was called upon to decide upon a question affecting the country—to dispose of, without
 1307
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : No doubt a very important question has been raised by the right hon. Baronet; but in the first place I must, before saying anything on the question immediately before the House, utterly and entirely deny the meaning which he has in some manner or other extracted from my words and the words of my noble Friend. I said the object of the war should be beyond the immediate defence of Turkey from the aggression which was committed by Russia—security for Turkey for the future. I said we should endeavour to obtain that security. I have never gone beyond that declaration. I said nothing of nationalities. I said that we were precluded at Vienna from entering into the question of diminishing the territory of Russia; and neither with regard to territory nor with regard to nationalities
 1304
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I never used the word "protectorate" at all.
 MR. A. STAFFORD  asked what arrangements had been made for forwarding the Crimean medals to those wounded and invalided soldiers who were now at home with their friends on leave of absence?
 MR. A. STAFFORD : But how are the soldiers at present at home with their friends to get these medals?
 MR. LAYARD  trusted the House would bear with him while he addressed them very shortly upon this important question. Before entering upon it he begged to thank the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) for the courteous notice he had taken of him and the kind advice which he had offered. The account which the right hon. Gentleman had given of what passed between them was strictly correct; for before entering the House he had no idea of the Resolution which the right hon. Gentleman was about to submit; but the moment he heard of the intention of the right
 1252 1253 1254 1255 1256 1257 1258 1259 1260 1261 status quo 1262 prestige prestige prestige 1263 1264 prestige? prestige prestige prestige 1265 prestige prestige? prestige 1266 1267 1268 1269 1270 prestige
 MR. DISRAELI : Well, the word I find is protection;—where is the difference?
 1296
 MR. DISRAELI : I congratulate the supporters of the noble Lord upon his present tone. The majority is obtained, and the noble Lord has risen to recant the speech which most legitimately called for
 1305 1306
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, if I felt any necessity of calling evidence to vindicate the propriety of the conduct which I have pursued, and the justice and policy of the course which I have taken, it would be the speech which I have just heard from the noble Lord, who has positively warned us, in the way of the fulfilment of his duty to carry on the war with effect, not to be influenced by any hope or prospect of any further negotiation for peace. Is this the Minister who only on Monday last evaded every inquiry? Is this the Minister who, to every question that was urged upon him—I will not say shuffled, for that would not be a Parliamentary word, and I certainly will not use it, although it rose to my lips in the heat of debate—but who certainly used every artifice to prevent the House of Commons from obtaining a single expression which would give an indication of the policy of the Government or of the resolution at which they had arrived on the great question of peace or war? Is this the
 1286 1287 parvenu 1288 1289 sine quâ non 1290 1291 1292 1293 1294 1295
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that it was not competent for the House to rescind a Resolution which it had come to the same night.
 MR. CAYLEY  said, that the question before the House was one of such importance, that it was impossible to approach it without a sense of its magnitude; neither was it a party question, and he should not approach it in any such spirit. He thought that the House was much indebted to the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire for reintroducing this question. He was, however, bound to say that, although he had heard the speech of the right hon. Member with admiration, and agreed with many of the sentiments which had fallen from him, yet he did not think that the terms of the Motion were consistent with the terms in which the right hon. Gentleman had given notice of it, nor with the speech which he had delivered. His right hon. Friend had raised two issues—the late conferences, and whether the Government meant negotiation or war. For his (Mr. Cayley's) part, he would vote for whoever spoke out plainest. What the country desired was, to receive not only from the Ministry but from the House of Commons a declaration of opinion on this subject, and he trusted that to-night the House would make an explicit declaration of its opinion in order that the country, which was ready to do its part in this war, might know that in the House of Commons was a faithful representation of its feelings. He had looked for the declaration of the Ministers with great anxiety, and had determined not to come to a decision in his own mind until the noble Lord the Member for London had spoken. He had not heard the noble Lord's speech, but had possessed himself of its tenour through the usual channels of information; and, as it was one of the privileges of his high position that scarcely a word spoken by the noble Lord was lost, he (Mr. Cayley) had become fully acquainted with the noble Lord's sentiments. He had experienced a most painful sensation at the rumour that the noble Lord had turned from the sentiments he had formerly expressed some time since on this subject; but he was glad to find that the noble Lord had still penetration to see through the wiles of Russian diplomacy. He was glad to find that the noble Lord saw that
 1225 1226 1227 1228 prestige 1229 1230
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  asked the Clerk of the Ordnance whether the cadetships to be granted in July were to be disposed of by nomination, or whether any system will be adopted by which they will be rendered attainable by young men of ability, unaided by interest?
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that he rose to support the Resolution moved by his right hon. Friend the Member for Buckinghamshire. The best justification of the notice given by his right hon. Friend was afforded by the discussion which occurred last night. But for that notice they would never have heard the profound views of the noble Lord the Member for London, nor the able speech of the right hon. Member for the University, which would have resembled the celebrated oration for Milo that Cicero carefully elaborated, but never delivered. But for that notice the hon. Baronet the Member for Oxford University could not have expressed the hopes which he still cherished of the successful termination of negotiations which did not exist; neither would the hon. Member for Kidderminster have had the opportunity of framing his magnanimous Amendment, which it was to be hoped he would push to a magnanimous conclusion. Hon. Members on that (the Opposition) side of the House were displeased with what took place on Monday night, and, if the First Minister of the Crown was a party to what then transpired, the House of Commons would fail in its duty to the public did it not unequivocally express its indignation at such a proceeding. When a Resolution of great importance—involving the momentous question of peace or war—was laid on the table, and hon. Gentlemen came down at considerable personal inconvenience to conduct its solemn discussion, that House would sink rapidly in the public estimation if it allowed such a matter to be got rid of on the flimsiest pretexts, and the country would justly consider that the House preferred a sham to a reality. They had had the advantage of listening to the noble Lord the Member for London, and the right hon. Member for the University—each of whom expounded his views with great ability, but with the most marked contrariety. Indeed, any impartial hearer of those two eminent men must have been struck with the proofs of inconsistency of opinion and uncertainty of conduct, not
 1195 1196 1197 1198 1199 1200 1201 "Austria is charged by her own voluntary assumption, with the consent of course of the allies, with the task of endeavouring to discover the means of bringing about an accommodation between the contending parties." "His apprehensions, he confessed, were for the period when he should hear that a movement had been made by the enemy for quitting the Principalities and to return to his own territory. He could not help fearing that there would arise embarrassments to us and to our ally, France; that great embarrassment of Russia having probably made some concession to Austria, and Austria then calling on us to enter into negotiations—of that he had more dread than of the war itself—because, if we were drawn into negotiations, the long series of diplomatic acts and protocols might be continued, with all the resources of Russian diplomacy, dragging us perhaps through the whole
 1202 Hansard 1203 "Doubtless, according to the calculations of the Cabinets of London and Paris, the military operations in the Crimea, going hand in hand with diplomatic deliberations, were to influence the issue of the Vienna Conference. When they opened, the anticipation was not justified by events, and therefore the name of Sebastopol was never uttered. Russia is indebted for this silence to the heroic resistance of her brave generals,
 1204 1205 1206 1207 1208 "The revision of the treaty of July 13, 1841, must have for its object to connect the existence of the Ottoman empire more completely with the European equilibrium and to put an end to the preponderance of Russia in the Black Sea. As to the arrangements to be taken in this respect, they depend too directly on the events of the war for it to be possible at present to determine the basis; it is sufficient to point out the principle." 1209 1210 1211 1212 Virgil "Cur indecores in limine primo Deficimus? cur ante tubam tremor occupat artus?" "This is the eighth year in which your Majesty's most dutiful and loyal subjects, the Commons in Parliament assembled, have assisted your Majesty with large supplies for carrying on a just and necessary war." "To show to your Majesty and all Christendom that the Commons of England will not be amused or diverted from their firm resolutions of obtaining by war a safe and honourable peace, we do, in the name of those we represent, renew our assurances to support your Majesty and your Government against all your enemies at home and abroad; and that we will effectually assist you in carrying on the war against France." "We assure your Majesty of our hearty and sincere assistance, not doubting but whenever your Majesty shall be obliged to be engaged for the defence of your allies and securing the liberty and quiet of Europe, Almighty God will protect your sacred person in so righteous a cause; and that the unanimity, wealth, and courage of your subjects will carry your Majesty with honour and success through all the difficulties of a just war." 1213
 MR. WILSON  said, the question of passports to Paris during the Exhibition, had been brought under the notice of the Treasury by the Foreign Office some few weeks ago, and an arrangement had been made whereby passports would be issued free to workmen and artisans of the United Kingdom, for the purpose of visiting Paris, and which would be good for one month from the time of their being issued. Arrangements had also been made for the purpose of enabling workmen to apply to the Foreign Office for their passports, and he believed they would require to have the recommendation of the mayors of the towns in which they lived, or, if they resided in London, the recommendation of the Lord Mayor or the Metropolitan Commissioner of Police. In country places, where there was no mayor, that authority would require to be given by the Superintendent Registrar of each district in England and Wales.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  expressed his entire concurrence in the views of the noble Lord.
 MR. ROEBUCK  thought the House must be conscious that they had acted injudiciously in consenting to adjourn for the holidays, and he appealed to the House to get itself out of the difficulty. Could the Speaker inform them whether it would not be competent to adjourn for a shorter period than ten days?
 MR. ROEBUCK : There is a report abroad of the Conferences of Vienna having been renewed. I wish to ask the noble Lord whether the Government have received any information about such renewal?
 MR. LOWE  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down had quoted a most patriotic and soul-stirring passage, and said that was the language which ought to be used now. Then, why was it not used? Why did not his party use it? He heartily wished such language had been used; and it was because it had not been used, and because hon. Gentlemen opposite kept their patriotism for their speeches and put their party spirit into their Motions, that he had felt it his duty to place before the House and the country something which would really raise the question that the House had to address itself to, and to which the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman might properly have applied. It was his duty to recall the House, if in his power to do so, after the wonderful burst of eloquence they had just heard, to the question before it. He had given notice of an Amendment to the Motion of the right hon. Member for Portsmouth (Sir F. Baring), and what he had to show the House was, that the Amendment was called for, true, and expedient; and with that view he would just recapitulate how the matter stood. The right hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) gave notice the other night of a series of Resolutions relating to the proceedings of the Vienna Conferences; but when he was going to move them, a question was asked of the head of the Government
 1214 ———"Amphora cœpit
Institui; currente rotâ cur urceus exit?" 1215 1216 1217 1218 mare apertum mare clausum 1219 1220 "Sententiæ ponderantur, non numerantur;" à l'outrance 1221 "The propositions which have been made to them, namely, the limitation of the Russian fleet in the Black Sea, being, in their eyes, derogatory to the sovereign rights of the Emperor, their master, contrary to the European equilibrium, and dangerous to the independence of the Ottoman empire, they cannot but decline them." 1222 prestige prestige 1223 1224
 MR. LOWE,  amidst general cries of "adjourn" and "divide" proposed his Amendment—
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, in this debate, involving the most important subject ever discussed in our time, if there were no other point on which they were all agreed, he trusted and believed they were all agreed in a desire to preserve the honour, the glory, and the greatness of the country. There might be those out of doors who thought it a justifiable method of seeking to recommend their views, to cast unworthy aspersions on persons who differed from them, and to say they were
 1231 1232 1233 1234 "If the ultimate exclusion of Russia, as well from the Greek protectorate as from the Principalities, be really that important object which has been hitherto presumed, success will never be obtained, according to every reasonable calculation, without a previous understanding between France and England to stop at no sacrifice which is to secure it." "Henceforward the extensive empire, of which Constantinople is the capital, must in all likelihood either take colour with Russia, or be assimilated to Europe. In the latter case, British influence and interests may be expected to find a widening field for their development; in the former they may be tolerated for a time, but they will probably decline by degrees, and be finally excluded. I can hardly doubt that the notion of Reschid Pasha and his friends, if fully supported from without, is, in failure of negotiation, to settle accounts with Russia once for all, and to carry out a system of internal improvements calculated to raise the condition of the Porte's Christian subjects and to place the Turkish Empire on a footing of close connection with the leading, and particularly with the Western Powers of Europe. The idea is no less brilliant than benevolent; but to realise it is difficult, though far from impossible." "It is from England and France alone that Turkey can look for sympathy and support; in the event of a struggle all other Powers would be found neutral, or would become hostile; and if England and France were now prepared to run the risks of a European war, and to disregard the commercial, the social, and the political disasters it would entail; if they were prepared, in short, as your Excellency says, to stop at no sacrifice for attaining the object they have in view, there is little doubt they would cripple the resources of Russia, and on the signature of peace it is more than probable that the exclusion of that Power from the Greek protectorate, and from the Principalities, would be secured. Russia would be effectually repelled; but Turkey would, in the meantime, be irretrievably ruined; and we might then find it impossible to restore her integrity or to maintain her independence." 1235 "It may be alleged with truth, and I have striven to impress the truth in every form of language on their minds, that, however natural such sentiments may be, their indulgence on the present occasion is neither just, nor wise, nor humane; seeing that the original difference can now be settled on safe and honourable grounds—this was while the negotiations consequent upon the Vienna Note were in progress—with every moral and political advantage on the Sultan's side; while an unnecessary continuance of hostilities would involve the most perilous hazards, the most exhausting sacrifices, a vast effusion of blood, and, more than possibly, the horrors of a general war. Unfortunately, the motives to forbearance are thrown into the shade by the dazzling illusions of hope; and passion is in league with occasion to merge all fears of danger, and all considerations of prudence, in a wild, though attractive, speculation, difficult at best to realise, and of which even the accomplishment would not be unattended with formidable drawbacks." 1236 safely 1237 1238 "The privileged frontier of Russia in the Black Sea has enabled her to establish a naval power which, in the absence of any counter-balancing force, is a standing menace to the Ottoman Empire." "Let the Straits remain closed against me; I give up all pretence of having a reciprocal right to go through them; and, at the same time, I am willing that the Porte should have the power, whenever she considers her security menaced, to admit as many ships of war as she pleases." 1239 1240 1241 pro aris et focis
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, I move that the further consideration of this question be adjourned until Monday week—[Loud calls for a division on the Opposition benches.]
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I wish to ask a question of Her Majesty's Government, for the noble Lord's answer to the question of the hon. Member for Sheffield is not quite understood. The noble Lord stated a few days since that the conferences were not finally concluded, but only suspended, and that Lord Westmorland retained full power to receive proposals. I wish, therefore, to know from the noble Lord whether those powers have been withdrawn, and, if so, at what period they were so withdrawn?
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  asked the Secretary of the Treasury whether any arrangements will be made for the purpose of facilitating the obtaining of passports to Paris during the Exhibition?
 MR. BARROW  thought a fair opportunity ought to be afforded for discussing the Amendment, although he had already made up his mind on it.
 MR. MONSELL  said that the system which had prevailed for many years at Woolwich with regard to the appointment of cadets had been excusively that of nomination. Within the last few days, however, upon the reconsideration of the civil departments of the army, he directed the attention of the Secretary for War, in the first place, to the necessity of appointing a considerable number of additional cadets at Woolwich; and, in the next place, the expediency of altering the system by which they had hitherto been selected. It was utterly impossible, the want being so urgent, to make any permanent arrangement
 1191
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL : Hunt and Roskell have received orders to forward them to their homes.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that 2,000 medals were now in the hands of Messrs. Hunt and Roskell, to be delivered immediately to those soldiers at present in England on leave of absence from the Crimea, who had not been able to be present at the ceremony of the 18th instant. Those soldiers who had received medals on that day without clasps would immediately be furnished with certificates, by the production of which they would be able to obtain the clasps to which they were entitled. He might also take this opportunity of mentioning that arrangements had been made for forwarding to the Crimea 8,000 medals fortnightly for distribution there.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : I voted against the Resolution which was proposed by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bucks, because it appeared to me that it would not raise the question of peace or war, but more directly raised the question of confidence in Her Majesty's Government; and I thought that at this moment a change in the Ministry was not advisable, and would not be conducive to the welfare of the State. That was a question implying censure on the Government, and it seemed to me that, although the debate, from the House having determined to adjourn over the holidays from this morning, was necessarily comprised within the compass of a few hours, quite inadequate to the ample discussion of the entire subject—it seemed to me, on the whole, only fair that the decision of the House should be taken to-night on the question whether a change in the Administration should take place. The House by a decisive majority, has pronounced its decision that that change at
 1302 1303
 VISCOUNT GODERICH  protested against the adjournment of the discussion. I was highly objectionable that the House should separate for so unusually long a period at that season, for their private
 1301
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has truly said that this is a great country, that we are at present in a great emergency, and that the country will follow any leader who will lead it to honour and to glory. Sir, in spite of what has been said by the hon. Member, or by any hon. Member, on either side of the House, or by those out of it, who have found fault with the conduct of the Government, I venture to affirm that those now intrusted with the conduct of affairs will, as far as human powers will permit, lead the country through this struggle to honour and glory. I cannot say, I think that the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman on which we are now to decide is one befitting the greatness of this occasion or the magnitude of the subject. I could perfectly understand that a great party, which thought that power ought to be transferred to themselves, because those in whose hands it was placed were unequal to their task, should call on the House to pronounce a verdict of a transfer of power from those who hold it to those who wish to possess it; but, if that was the course
 1271 1272 1273 1274 1275 1276 1277 1278 1279 1280 1281 1282 1283 1284 1285
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The powers have not been withdrawn; but it is one thing to possess powers and another to exercise them in cases not foreseen by Her Majesty's Government.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : There has been no conference held since the last recorded in the papers now before the House. Before any further conferences are held Her Majesty's Ministers at Vienna must receive authority from Her Majesty's Government to attend such conference.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I think, considering the importance of the subject which has been brought under our notice, and considering, moreover, the ground upon which the present debate is raised, namely, that the House ought not to separate for the Whitsuntide holidays without expressing its opinion relative to the position of affairs—I think the House, although the hour certainly is very late, might proceed to dispose of the Amendments. For my part, I have no objection to accepting the first section of my hon. Friend's (Mr. Lowe) Amendment, as it merely recites a fact which cannot be denied; but to the second, I am decidedly opposed, for the same reason that I have opposed that of the right hon. Member for Bucks, namely, because it contains a principle of interference with the prerogative of the Crown. While, as regards the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford, I am also opposed to it.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that at this hour, and in the present state of the House, he could not resist the proposal to adjourn the debate.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that from the question which had been asked that night of the First Minister of the Crown by the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe) relative to the closing of the conferences at Vienna, it had been attempted to be inferred that it would be inconvenient at present to discuss the Amendment of the hon. Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe). He (Mr. M. Gibson), for one, was not responsible for that Amendment, and, therefore, seeing that its proposer persevered with it, he should state the reasons why he must vote against it. The doctrine of the hon. Member for Finsbury was certainly somewhat startling, because the House was often asked to postpone discussion while negotiations were pending, and often agreed to do so; and, therefore, to say that, inasmuch as negotiation had now closed, they ought not to discuss the conduct of the Government, was tantamount to contending
 1319 1320 "That this House having seen with regret that, owing to the refusal of Russia to restrict the strength of her navy in the Black Sea, the Conferences at Vienna have not led to a termination of hostilities, feels it to be its duty to declare that the means of coming to an agreement on the third basis of negotiation being by this refusal exhausted, it will continue to give every support to Her Majesty in the prosecution of the war until Her Majesty shall, in conjunction with Her Allies, hare obtained for this country a safe and honourable peace." sine quâ non 1321 1322 1323 The Times The Times The Times The Times "It is effrontery to compel the English people to carry on war for the preservation of Mahomedanism in Europe, and to protect a Power which has so badly governed one of the most beautiful empires in the world—a Power depending principally on foreign Ministers for counsels, on foreign fleets for defence, and on foreign renegades for the command of its armies." The Times 1324 "Why, Europe was really standing upon a mine without being aware of it, while the influence of Russia was so skilfully exercised as to paralyse both Governments and people, to render them unconscious of the danger to which they were exposed, and to diminish their ability to meet that danger. For this state of things every Government
 1325 Hansard "Upon the whole, Her Majesty's Government are persuaded that no course of policy can be adopted more wise, more disinterested, more beneficial to Europe than that which His Imperial Majesty has so long followed, and which will render his name more illustrious than that of the most famous Sovereigns who have sought immortality by unprovoked conquest and ephemeral glory." 1326 1327 Koran "Every day that sees the strife continue and the capital of the Ottoman occupied by newly-arriving forces witnesses also the weakening of the independent action of the Porte, and the substitution for it of the will of the allies. Now that immediate danger from Russia is past, and the enthusiasm of a few months since has died away, or been drowned in blood and losses, the feelings of the Turkish race have been much changed. Every other impulse is now swallowed up in the desire to get rid of the Western armies. The terrible image which is ever before the eyes of Mussulmans is the elevation of the Christian races to an equality with themselves. This they believe the West will insist upon, and they have a not unnatural feeling that the presence of two armies in their territory will give them little choice in the principle or details of any changes. No one who has any acquaintance with the Turks can doubt their utter discouragement as to the result of the present occupation, and of their wish, at any cost, to bring it to a close. The feeling is deepest among those in power, who have most to lose in the shape of unworthy influences and illegal gains. If, when peace is concluded, the allies should urge a further stay of their armies on Turkish soil, it is most certain that the project will be opposed with all the desperate pertinacity which is characteristic of the race, and
 1328 sine quâ non 1329 ultimatum. ultimatum mare clausum 1330 The Times The Times "But the most immediate objects of the war are the permanent vindication of Turkish independence, the permanent clearing of the territory invaded, and the permanent opening of the Black Sea and Danube to all nations." 1331 1332 "In the course of this conversation the First Consul did not attempt to disguise his ultimate views upon Egypt; and, though he professed to disclaim any intention of seizing it at present, he assigned, as the reason for his forbearance, 'that sooner or later it would belong to France, either by the falling to pieces of the Turkish Empire, or by some arrangement with the Porte.'" status quo. 1333 "Was it not the universal impression in all Europe that Ibrahim Pasha was acting against the Sultan on a secret understanding with France? Was it not the impression of all Europe that the army of Ibrahim was, in all the principal departments, officered and directed by French officers, acting with the consent of France? Was that true, or was it not? …If that were so, and if England felt herself so bound with her intimate alliance with France that her hands were tied up, that she was compelled to connive, at least, at an aggression upon Turkey which France had directly encouraged, then we see in these circumstances reason for the forbearance of England (to help Turkey) better, or at least more intelligible, than any that Lord Palmerston had stated." "If he understood the argument it was, that because Great Britain did not grant any assistance, the Sultan was compelled to have recourse to Russia for aid, and that we had no right to complain of Russia for having enabled the Sultan to secure himself from the danger with which he was threatened. Great Britain never complained of Russia granting that assistance. He had stated, on a former occasion, when he was interrogated on that point, that Great Britain did not complain of the assistance which Russia had afforded to Turkey, but on the contrary, was glad that Turkey had been able to obtain effectual relief from that quarter; and he had stated, that our Government reposed perfect confidence in the assurances it had received from the Russian Government, that when the force so sent had effected the object for which it was despatched—namely, the defence of the Sultan and his capital—it would retire to the Russian dominions. In that confidence Ministers were not deceived—that force did retire; and, therefore, not only were they justified in not remonstrating against the aid given by Russia to Turkey, but they were fully borne out in the belief that, when that defence had been effected, the troops so sent would be withdrawn." 1334 1335
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH : It is somewhat difficult to tell what is at the present moment the precise question which the House has to consider. The original Motion of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire was a vote of censure on Her Majesty's Government.
 1336 The Times 1337 "Beware Of entrance to a quarrel; but, being in, Bear it, that the opposer may beware of thee." 1338 1339 1340 status quo ante bellum 1341 1342 1343 1344 Moltke 1345 1346
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he was far from agreeing that the Government had done all that was possible before entering upon the war, either to maintain peace, or to make efficient preparations for hostilities; but he must admit that the nation was impatient that war had not sooner been commenced. He blamed the late Government for having neglected all ordinary precautions against climate, disease
 1347 1348
 MR. G. E. VERNON  said, that he should be failing in his duty if, in deference to the enthusiasm of the hour—if, for the temporary purpose of courting popularity, he were to refrain from expressing his opinion that the negotiations ought to have been continued, and that the opportunity had been lost of a satisfactory termination of the war. He found fault with the Ministers for having pursued a course the policy of which he could not understand. Matters either were ripe for negotiation, or they were not. If they were not ripe in the judgment of the Government—then, no matter how delicate our relations with Austria might be, no matter how complicated might be our position with regard to our allies, the Government would in the end have done better if they had declared definitively what their requirements were. If they had announced their views in a manner which Russia could not misunderstand or misinterpret—if they had declared themselves willing, not to negotiate so much as to receive overtures of peace upon the conditions which they had laid down—if, in short, they had assumed the attitude of a great Power embarked in a mighty cause, strong in their military position, and confident of success. If, on the other hand, the Government was of opinion that there was a fair opportunity of negotiating on terms honourable to the allied Powers and not discreditable to Russia, a prospect of settling this matter, not by a miserable compromise, but by the substantial gain of more than we had asked or hoped for in the commencement of the war, then the negotiations
ought not to have been broken off. And be would say this, that if we were to negotiate at all, we must negotiate on terms not repugnant to the safety or honour of either party. If we were to treat with Russia not as a conquered and reduced country, but as one which we still acknowledged as a first-rate Power, we must treat with her in that spirit of fairness and consideration which ought to characterise the dealings of nations as of individuals. 1350 1351 1352 "Timeo Danaos et dona ferentes." 1353
 VISCOUNT DUNGARVAN  said, he thought the late speeches of the right hon. Gentlemen the Members for Carlisle (Sir J. Graham) and for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone) on this question of peace or war were greatly to be regretted, for, coming as they did from Gentlemen who had recently held office, and who had been parties to the commencement of the war, there could be no doubt that they would have a most discouraging effect both on the people at home, and also on our brave allies abroad. He was glad to hear that the negotiations at Vienna were not likely to be renewed after our late successes, for the state of uncertainty in which the public mind was kept during the progress of those negotiations, and the manner in which the Government had discouraged all discussion of them, had prevented the people from placing in the noble Lord at the head of the Government that entire confidence which was necessary for the successful carrying on of a great war. The House of Commons had been told last Session that Europe stood in no danger
 1354 onus prestige prestige 1355
 MR. BAXTER  said, that as no one directly connected with trade and commerce had yet spoken on the question before the House, and as the trade with which he was connected, the linen manufactures of Forfarshire, was peculiarly interested in the struggle with Russia, he would ask leave of the House to allow him to explain the view he took on the subject under consideration. He had thought from the beginning that both the Amendment of the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. W. Heath cote) and that of the hon. Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe) could be correctly enough objected to on constitutional grounds. His impression was, that it would be both unusual and imprudent in the House of Commons to pass any Resolution which would have the effect of hampering or fettering the Executive Government at the present moment. It was scarcely within their province to say whether or not negotiations should be renewed, or what were the precise terms to obtain which they thought it worth while prosecuting the war. Whether they should, in the first place, give way to Russia as soon as possible, or whether, in the second, they should not make any peace with that Power till she consented to the diminution of her fleet in the Black Sea, were points to be determined, not by the House of Commons, but by the responsible Ministers of the Crown; and the House should either treat those Ministers with a generous confidence or at once take measures for displacing them. The hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) said, there were two courses open to them, viz., the impeachment of Ministers, or the stopping the supplies. For his part, he thought that a third course was open to them, and he even felt surprised that the hon. Member for Manchester had not taken that course and voted for the Motion of the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli). He thought it would be unwise in that House to adopt either of those two courses. No terms had yet
 1356 1357
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he could not help remarking the very great discrepancy between the language used by the Government previous to the present debate, and that which they had held in the course of it. At first, they had stated that negotiations were still pending, and, next, they had told the House that all negotiations were positively at an end. Now he wished to ask which of these irreconcilable announcements was to be believed? But, if the language of the Government had been ambiguous, what had been their acts in the management of the war? The First Minister of the Crown had thrown down a challenge on this subject, and claimed credit to the Government for their conduct of the war. The noble Lord said the army was now ready to take the field, that its medical department was efficient, the commissariat working well, the land transport corps organised; and he seemed inclined to ask, "What more, then, could be required of a Prime Minister?" Now,
 1358 1359 l. l. l. 1360 prestige
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he believed that the great disasters which this country had undergone in the Crimea, and which he trusted no temporary present successes would make us in any way forget, were mainly owing to the want of principle with which the war was entered upon, and the manner in which it was conducted by the Government. He was bound to say, that if the Motion made the other night by the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) had been brought forward at an earlier period, he, at any rate, would not have been found among those who asserted that the language of the Ministry was not ambiguous and their conduct uncertain; and it was because the portion of the Cabinet which at that time mainly had the conduct of the war in their hands were no longer Members of the Government, that he had been enabled on this occasion to vote against that Motion. The uncertainty which characterised the conduct of the Government by whom the war was initiated had produced certain inevitable consequences, upon which he would not dilate, but which resulted from the policy of those who originated the war. A noble Lord in another place had had the misfortune to say that this country had "drifted into war," and the phrase had now become almost vernacular in English politics, but that phrase clearly avowed the origin of the contest. He (Mr. Milnes) must say, however, that if the country continued to drift along in a war without a pilot worthy to direct it,
 1361 1362 1363 "Tutiù;s est igitur fictis contendere verbis, Quà;m pugnare manu." 1364 1365
 SIR EDWARD DERING  said, that when this question was last before the House he had voted for the Motion of the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli), declaring that the declarations of Her Majesty's Government were ambiguous, and he did not regret that Motion, or the vote he gave upon it, for when it was made he had not heard the open and explicit declarations with respect to the future conduct of the war from the noble Lord the Member for London (Lord J. Russell), and from the noble Lord at the head of the Government, which, however unpalatable to the hon. Members for Manchester, had given unqualified satisfaction to his (the Opposition) side of the House. He was glad, too, that the Motion of the hon. Member for Kidderminster had given the House the opportunity of going a step further. A great deal had been said about the conciliatory disposition of Russia with respect to the first two points, but it appeared to him that Russia, so far from being willing to concede anything, had acted with the same subtle and
 1366 animus 1367 1368 1369
 LORD ELCHO  said, he was unable to support the views of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Gladstone), whose eloquent and able speech he regretted, because the feeling of the vast majority of the people, and of the Members of that House was diametrically opposed to his views, and also because his speech was calculated to give form and colour to the rumour that the Government of Lord Aberdeen had never heartily entered into the prosecution of the war, and that "lukewarm" should be the explanation of "too late. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) had talked of anonymous articles in  The Times 1370 "Our policy, wrote Prince Lieven, must be to maintain a reserved and prudent attitude until the moment arrives for Russia to vindicate her rights, and for the rapid action which she will be obliged to adopt. The war ought to take Europe by surprise. Our movements must be prompt, so that the other Powers should find it impossible to be prepared for the blow we are about to strike." "In this conjuncture Her Majesty feels called upon by regard for her ally, the integrity and independence of whose empire have been recognised as essential to the peace of Europe, by the sympathies of her people with right against wrong, by a desire to avert from her dominions most injurious consequences, and to save Europe from the preponderance of a Power which has violated the faith of treaties and defies the opinion of the civilised world, to take up arms in conjunction
 1371 "It is not merely the protection of Turkey against the aggressions of Russia that is concerned in the Eastern question, as it is commonly called, but it is the battle of civilisation against barbarism, for the maintenance of the independence of Europe." [3  Hansard "I think that you will agree with me that repression will only postpone the danger, and that safety can alone be found in curtailing the power which menaces the peace of Europe and the cause of progress and civilisation." "Protested against the supposition that we were taking up arms out of a romantic feeling for Turkey. It was for keeping up the balance of power and resisting the encroachments of Russia. It ought to be understood we were not inclined to be embarked in this war so much for the purpose of defending Turkey as of opposing Russia." "A shameful and dishonourable peace I am confident they (the people) would declare that to be which should not bridle the growing ambition of Russia, restrain her not merely within her existing limits, but wrest from her those portions of her conquests her retention of which is dangerous to the tranquillity and independence of Europe." 1372 1373 prestige
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he wished, in the few observations he was about to make, to confine himself, as far as possible, to the words of the Amendment, in which was the real subject under discussion, and to the negotiations that had recently taken place at Vienna. There were, however, one or two observations which had been made in the course of the evening to which, if he did not express his dissent, he might be presumed to assent. With respect to the allusion just made by his noble Friend to some words of a letter of the late Prince Lieven, he could not help observing that subsequent events had disproved his inferences, and that history did not bear out the imputation of grasping ambition that the noble Lord sought to found upon it. What had happened since that letter was written? In 1832–Russia might have occupied Constantinople without the slightest resistance. The Sultan was powerless—his armies had been thrice defeated—at Homs, Alexandretta, and Keniah—the victorious rebel was marching unopposed to the capital—the state of Western Europe was most favourable to Russia—at home a new Parliament, under the new Reform Bill, with the fresh Reform Bill and Coercion Bills under discussion. Our fleet was off Flushing, blockading the Scheldt. The siege of Antwerp was
 1374 1375 1376 1377 1378
 SIR BULWER LYTTON : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) towards the close of his able speech, summed up his strongest objections to the continuance of the war, by asking how it would profit the country. In answer to that question let me remind the right hon. Gentleman of the laudable earnestness with which, in a recent debate, he assured the house that he and those with whom he concurred in the policy to be adopted for the restoration of peace were no less anxious than we are for the due maintenance of the national honour—I cordially believe him, and when he asks how the continuance of the war can profit the country, I answer, because the continuance of the war is as yet essential to the vindication of the national honour, and because the national honour is the bulwark of the national interests. For there is this distinction between individuals and nations. With the first a jealous tenacity of honour may be a mere sentiment, with the last it is a condition of power. If you lower the honour of a man in the eyes of his equals, he may still say, "My fortune is not attacked, my estate is unimpaired, the laws still protect my rights and my person, I can still command my dependents and bestow my beneficence upon those who require my aid;" but if you lower the honour of a nation in the eyes of other States, and especially a nation like England, which owes her position, not to her territories, but to her character, not to the amount of her armies, nor even to
 1379 1380 Hobbes. "Remember the independence and integrity of Turkey are not like the independence and integrity of England and France. It is a Government full of anomaly, of difficulty, and distress." The Times 1381 1382 1383 1384 mare clausum 1385 1386 1387 1388 1389 1390 1391 entrepôt History of Treaties 1392 "The closing of her ports, which was the result of her war with England, deprived Russia of all outlet for her exportations, which, consisting chiefly of raw materials—such as timber, potash, iron, &c.—could only be transported by sea. The balance of commerce thus fixed itself entirely to the detriment of Russia, and, producing there a disastrous fall in the course of exchange, and a depreciation of the currency, menaced with ruin all the financial resources of the State." 1393
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he must appeal
to the consideration of the House to hear with him while he endeavoured to reply to the eloquent address they had just heard, at the same time he desired to say that he entirely concurred in almost every word that had fallen from the hon. Baronet. He thought the House and the country were indebted to the hon. Baronet for the powerful, manly, and open way in which he had spoken upon this great question; for, unlike, other speeches which had proceeded from the Opposition, that of the hon. Baronet contained not only a clear statement of what he did not think, but also of what his own opinions really were, and what his own course would be. It had been said that the country had drifted into the war; but he did not think it was truly said, for he was much mistaken if the people of this country did not know well why they had entered into the war, and that they were not disposed to desist from it until the object of the war had been obtained. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester said that the war had been charged to the peace party. The right hon. Gentleman denied that charge, and ascribed the war to supposed impossibility of an alliance between France and England and the periodical writings of the day. He (the Lord Advocate) did not doubt with the right hon. Gentleman that the Emperor of Russia believed it was most improbable that France and England would come into an alliance, and that he was also encouraged by the tone of the periodical press, but it seemed to escape the right hon. Gentleman that whilst he said these two elements entered into the causes of the war, he confessed what he was so anxious to deny, that the Emperor of Russia was waiting for his opportunity. He believed that the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir B. Lytton) had given some wholesome and salutary advice to the right hon. Gentleman and his Friends, for if it could not be doubted that the improbability of an alliance with France and the tone of the periodical press had encouraged the Emperor of Russia to go to war, the names of those who were now found enlisted on the aide of peace would encourage him much more to persevere in it. He thought that the origin of the war had been mis-stated by some hon. Gentlemen. No doubt the position of Turkey as regarded the rest of Europe was the main ground, but the real
 1394 status quo 1395
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he trusted that the House would allow this Amendment to be disposed of. He considered that the Amendment on which the hon. Member would wish to state his sentiments, was the Amendment of the hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Sir W. Heathcote).
 MR. COBDEN  said, he must beg the noble Lord's pardon, but it was on this Amendment that he wished to state his sentiments.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he hoped that there would he no difference of opinion on this important point. There were several Amendments on the paper, but it appeared
 1396
 MR. FITZROY  said, that there had been no prayers that evening, because prayers were never said in that House on the occasion of the election of a Speaker; but if the House would agree to the Resolution, prayers would be read as usual on the next and following days.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said there had been no prayers that day, and in consequence Members were unable to secure their seats for the evening. He wished to ask whether, in the event of the Resolution being agreed to, that disadvantage would continue to exist?
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, he would beg to suggest whether it might not be possible for the House to avail themselves of the absence of Mr. Speaker to get rid of a complication of Amendments in one of the most useless and mischievous debates that had ever taken place in that House.
 MR. A. STAFFORD  said, that previously to the recess he had received an answer from the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of War on this subject, which, he believed, was not strictly accurate, and he would therefore now ask the hon. Gentleman to state the precise mode in which soldiers from the Crimea now at home or in hospital would be able to get the medal and clasps lately issued for services in the Crimea?
 MR. DISRAELI  said, it would be placing the House in an invidious position to call upon them to rescind any Resolution to which they had agreed on a former occasion. He thought this very question had been discussed in the Committee, and they were of opinion that the course the noble Lord now asked the House to take would not be expedient.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he was in a position to give the most complete and satisfactory explanation to the hon. and learned Gentleman in reference to the interpretation put by Russia on the notification given by Captain Watson, of Her Majesty's frigate  Impérieuse Impérieuse 1318
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, he would suggest that the words, "in like manner," should be omitted from the Resolution,
 1316
 MR. BRIGHT : I wish to ask the noble Lord when he will be able to lay on the table of the House the further papers with reference to the conferences, giving the particulars of any propositions which have been under the consideration of the Government, forwarded by the French or Austrian Governments, and the answers that have been returned, so that the House may know, up to the latest moment, the precise condition upon which the country is entering into a prolonged war.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, it had been stated that Captain Watson, of the  Impérieuse 1317
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE : And a good riddance too.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE : I should be glad, Sir, to ask a question of the noble Lord at the head of the Government. I perceive there is a report in this day's papers that the Ministers of the Five Powers will meet, and the conference be formally dissolved to-day. I wish to ask the noble Lord whether this be true; and, if so, whether he expects the conferences
 1314
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, he believed there was some inaccuracy in the answer which he had formerly given to the hon. Gentleman on this subject. The course, however, which would be pursued would be this: The depôt officers of the
 1315
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, that if it were intended to pass this Resolution indefinitely, they would be introducing a grave alteration in their proceedings. For one or two days it might be unimportant, but the House could not appoint a Speaker without the approval of the Crown.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the original Resolution providing for the occasional absence of the Speaker had received the approbation of the Crown. It was competent for the House to rescind this Resolution at any time, and thus the whole matter rested entirely in its own hands.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, perhaps it would be sufficient to say that the proposed arrangement should continue during the present week, if necessary.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he would agree to leave out the words, "in like manner."
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he had seen that morning the professional gentleman who was in attendance upon Mr. Speaker, and had been told that, although the right hon. Gentleman was only suffering from a sprain which he received last week on alighting from horseback at a yeomanry review, still some days' rest, he thought, would be essential to a rapid recovery; and therefore it would not be advisable that Mr. Speaker should come down to the House for a few days. Under these circumstances, and in order to avoid the delay which would take place every day in complying with the forms required by the Standing Orders, he would, with the consent of the House, move the following Resolution—
 "That in the event of Mr. Speaker's absence continuing for more than this day, Mr. FitzRoy take the Chair in like manner as on this day, on each subsequent day during Mr. Speaker's absence."
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I am not at present able to give a reply to the hon. Gentleman, but I hope to be able to do so to-
morrow.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : It is perfectly true, Sir, that Her Majesty's Government expect that the Conference of Vienna was to be reassembled this day, at one o'clock, for the purpose of its being finally closed. The consent of the Governments of England and France to such closing was converyed to their respective Ministers, and I believe it was the intention of the Austrian member of the conference to declare that the conference was closed. The result cannot be known until a late hour this night, if at all; but my expectation is, that we shall hear in the course of to-night, or to-morrow, that the meeting did take place to-day, and that the conference had been finally closed.
 COLONEL KNOX  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty whether any report had been received as to the cause of the disaster
 1408 Medway
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he had a question to put to the hon. Gentleman the
 1407 l. l.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it would be in the recollection of the Committee, that when the Bill to increase the duty on Spirits was under discussion, various propositions were made with respect to the distillation of malt spirits; and that he stated that it was his intention to introduce a Bill on the subject immediately after Whitsuntide. He would now state in general terms that it was proposed to allow the distillation of spirits from malt, and also from molasses in bond, and to abolish the drawback from October
 1487
 ADMIRAL JONES  said, he wished to know whether the duty proposed by the Resolutions was the same as was now imposed upon spirits?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, an addition of 2 d.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, the reason why these Bills did not extend to Scotland was, that they were based chiefly on the machinery of the Joint-Stock Companies Registration Act, which was confined to England and Ireland. With regard to introducing a separate measure for Scotland, his right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate had the subject under his consideration, but he was not able to say that his right hon. and learned Friend would be able to bring in a Bill this Session.
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, he felt that the question was being discussed after all hopes of peace were dissipated; but, since the discussion had arisen there was no alternative for him but to declare that he should support the Amendment of the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir W. Heathcote). He was aware that the view which he took of the question was extremely unpopular, but, adhering as he did to that view, it became his duty to declare his opinion that the present war was one fruitful of danger and calamity to the country. He thought had become the duty of those who did no sympathise with the popular enthusiasm who thought that it might lead to great dangers, and who did not see any immediate or near issue from an arduous war and the great calamities it might entail, to express
 1438 1439 1440 1441
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, the many references which have been made to the late negotiations, and especially the observations made by the hon. Gentleman the Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden), make it incumbent on me to address some explanation to the House; and in so doing I shall endeavour to imitate the calm spirit in which the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has discussed this matter; because, as he has observed, we are not now considering any question of party triumph or party politics—we are looking to the great question of the conditions of peace which might be obtained, or to the nature of the war which we have to wage. It seems to me that these are the two great questions we have to consider. If you are determined to have peace, upon what conditions can you obtain it? If you mean to carry on the war, for what objects is that war to be carried on? Now, Sir, with respect to the first of those questions, let it be remembered that, although, as my right hon. Friend (Sir, J. Graham) has truly said, we have already in a short period grained very great
 1470 1471 1472 1473 1474 1475 "Count Buol resumes by reiterating the opinions pronounced by him; adds that the project developed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of France, and declined by the Plenipotentiaries of Russia, contained a complete and efficacious system; that he could not say as much of the propositions put forward this day; that Russia, in attaching to the mutual guarantee the value only of an engagement not to encroach on the independence and territorial integrity of the Ottoman Empire, reduces it, in fact, to an obligation which may be said to be self-evident; that the arrangement proposed to act as an application of the principle of the cessation of Russian preponderance in the Black Sea limits itself to the power reserved to the Sultan of calling foreign fleets to his aid whenever the preponderance of the Russian fleet should become threatening to him, which, in fact, would only tend to augment the chances of a misunderstanding; that, to sum up, the Russian propositions could only be considered as including principles of a nature to be introduced into a general and complete system." 1476 1477 1478 1479 1480 1481
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he begged to ask the Vice-President of the Board of Trade to state the reason why the Partnership and Limited Liabilities Bills are not extended to Scotland, and whether it is the purpose of the Government to introduce corresponding measures in reference to that part of the United Kingdom?
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he thought this was an irregular and unparliamentary proceeding. He did not wish to throw any obstacle in the way of private conversations and agreements between the Government and Members of Parliament and the representatives of particular trades, but it was the duty of a Minister, when he proposed Resolutions, founded on such conversations and agreements, to make a plain statement of the intentions of the Government and of the meaning of those Resolutions
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the suggestion of the noble Lord appears to me to be very unsatisfactory. More than three weeks ago I made a suggestion to the noble Lord, he having by command of Her Majesty placed certain papers on the table, that he should follow the usual course of ministers in his position, and move an Address to the Crown on the subject, so that the House might have the opportunity of expressing an opinion on the manner in which the affairs of the country had been transacted, and also of expressing their determination to support Her Majesty in the vigorous prosecution of the war, if she should think
 1482 sine quâ non 1483 tabula rasa sine quâ non
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the loss of the horses was entirely attributable to the very severe weather which the  Medway "I have to report that she has stable room for 220 horses. The boxes are well and securely built, and the ventilation is admirable. 115 of the horses hare boxes on the lower deck, which is nearly seven feet high and thoroughly ventilated. The rest are on the spar deck. The main deck is entirely set apart for the use of the men, and can berth 220." "In going over the ship with the captain I was astonished at the little comparative damage done to the fittings, considering the gale which was described to me, the signs of which were evident from the way the paddle-boxes were stove in. The gale appears to have been a very severe one, and the ship to have laboured exceedingly. The horses, having become frantic from fear, plunged and kicked in a manner that must have been frightful, and so that no one could go near them."
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, he had heard the debate from the commencement, and he must say that he thought that a great deal of irrelevant matter had been introduced. He should not have risen at that moment but to express his dissent from the conclusions at which the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden) had arrived. He had used much exaggeration, and had unjustly accused the noble Lord the Member for London (Lord J. Russell) of taking a Russian view of certain parts of the question. He (Mr. Scully) saw no harm in allowing Russia to join in the protectorate of the Principalities, along with the Four great Powers. He believed that the noble Lord was justified in accepting the terms of Russia on the first point, and in rejecting them on the third. The question now before the House was, whether the Russian propositions ought to have been entertained. Much confusion was caused by the variety of parties in that House; and the war was waged at a disadvantage in consequence. In both Houses of Parliament Members were continually bringing forward Motions impugning the conduct of the Government in the management of the war. In this respect the Emperor of Russia had a great advantage over us; he had no Houses of Parliament to consult—nothing but his own will. It was true, great mistakes had occurred last year in the Crimea, but they had been atoned for since; and we were now in a condition to carry on the war with vigour and success. That being so, he thought it most improper for that House to advise the Government as to the steps that ought to have been taken consequent on the late negotiations. The making of war or peace was the prerogative of the Crown, and in the way in which that prerogative had been exercised he thought the Government had shown a wise discretion. They were not to be blamed for attempting to negotiate and fight at the same time. He rejoiced to know that the Irish people were unanimous on this question; they were for carrying on the war with vigour and energy; and not one Irish Member had been found to support the "peace at all price" doctrines of Mr. Cobden and his friends. It was preposterous to suppose that any durable peace could have been patched up on such grounds as were proposed by Russia at
 1447 1448
 MR. VANSITTART  said, it was his opinion that we had entered upon this war, not as one of preservation but of aggression, for we had invaded the territory of Russia, and destroyed her navy or locked it up within her ports. The application of steam to our marine had given us ten times the naval power of Russia, and he thought it was impossible we could have any cause to fear the power of Russia in the Black Sea, when our recent successes had placed, in all probability, not only Sebastopol, but the whole Crimea in our hands. It was his belief that the Government had been somewhat too exacting upon the third point, and he was of opinion that they were not justified in declining to put an end to the war simply because the third point was not absolutely acceded to. He considered, however, that it would be too much to call upon the Government to abandon the war; but he certainly thought they should be required to lay down some clear and definite terms upon which they would be prepared to treat, in order that our demands might not, like a sort of political barometer, rise or fall with every loss or gain of a battle on either side. The speech of the noble Lord the Member for London that had been alluded to in the course of these discussions apparently conveyed the impression that a war of nationalities was possible, although the noble Lord, no doubt, did not intend that it should do so. If, at the conclusion of the war, the Crimea were to be occupied by a French army, it was impossible to tell at what time that occupation would be put an end to. When the French first took possession of Algiers they declared that they had no intention to hold it. There could be no doubt that the prolongation of the war would bring inevitable ruin upon Turkey, and he was sure that the interests of civilisation would
 1446
 MR. LABOUCHERE : I apprehend, Sir, the question before the House is,
 1485
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I entirely agree with the observations of the right hon. Gentleman that a more extraordinary proposition never came from the Ministerial bench, and that is saying a good deal. The noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies has just made a speech of nearly an Hour in length. I did not particularly look at the clock, but I know it seemed long to me. Like almost every other speech which I have heard the noble Lord make upon this most serious question, in it he laid himself open to a satisfactory and Conclusive reply, and I should like an opportunity on some evening this week to make some observations upon that speech, and also upon settle other passages in the recent life of the noble Lord. We are asked to discuss a proposition of Gentlemen supposed to be acting strongly in the interest of the noble Lord. It is a joint proposition from the right hon. Member for Portsmouth (Sir F. Baring), who is an old ally and Friend of the party of the noble Lord, and from the hon. Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe). But the question we have been discussing is this—was the Government acting for the true interests of the country in laying down at Vienna, as a  sine quâ non 1484 hocus pocus prestige
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that, before the adjourned debate on the Prosecution of the War was continued, he wished to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government a question, naturally following the answer which he had elicited from him on the previous evening. His present question was, whether the noble Lord was prepared to lay on the table the papers completing what had taken place at Vienna, and comprising the particulars of any propositions that had been made to Her Majesty's Government, and been considered and rejected by them, subsequently
 1409
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he rose to support the Amendment of the hon. Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe), which he thought ought at once to be adopted. It was said that the hon. Member's proposal was unconstitutional, because it interfered with the prerogative of the Crown. Now he (Mr. Phillimore) challenged any person to dispute what he now said—namely, that so far from that proposition being an interference with the prerogative of the Crown, it involved a right which the House of Commons had exercised in the brightest periods of its history over and over again, and with great advantage to the interests of the country. In the war which terminated with the Treaty of Utrecht, the House of Commons had agreed to an Address, drawn up by Lord Somers, which declared that no peace could be safe and honourable to the allies so long as Spain or the West Indies were suffered to remain under the power of a Bourbon. Although the opinion conveyed in that Address was disregarded, the principle involved was never once disputed. That Address, however, ended by advising the destruction of the fortifications of Dunkirk, which was carried out. He had listened with much regret, but without surprise, to some hon. Gentlemen who doubted the justice of the war. With regard to England never interfering by means of standing armies, he would remind the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden) that history proved we owed our liberties to such interference,—as when Queen Elizabeth supported the Dutch in their struggle with Philip of Spain; and William III. supported the
 1450 1451
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he must beg to explain that he had made no reflections on the management of the navy by the right hon. Baronet, which he was ready to confess had been most admirable.
 MR. ROEBUCK : I beg, Sir, to move the adjournment of this debate till Thursday next.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that Members, by now consenting to the Resolutions, must not be understood as pledged to all their details.
 MAJOR REED  said, that he was one of those individuals who were in favour of a vigorous prosecution of the war, and that he was rejoiced to see a termination of the Vienna Conferences, in which he never had had a particle of faith. With regard to the language which had been used that evening by the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden) he was surprised to hear him say that he would not pay attention to the voice of popular clamour, because if there was one Member in that House more than another whom he would have supposed to defer to the voice of the people, it assuredly was the hon. Member. He (Major Reed) believed that the people of this country were in favour of the war, as they had paid their increased taxes without murmur, and would, he doubted not, pay more if necessary. He deprecated, however, the peace-mongering orations of hon. Gentlemen below him, which were calculated to give the people an impression that Parliament was not unaminous on the subject of the war. As to the Amendments before the House, he would support the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Kidderminster, as he believed it would assist in promoting the vigorous prosecution of the war. As far as Austria was concerned, he believed we could never receive any active support from her; but his conviction was, that if we would only unite heartily with our ancient foe—France—the people of England and France would give their cordial support to their respective Governments until they had secured a just, honourable, and lasting peace.
 MR. COBDEN : Sir, I consider that the announcement which the noble Lord at the head of the Government has just made ought not to prevent this House from discussing the important subject now before it, for, whatever may be the result of the division here, certainly there is no other topic which now so much engrosses public attention out of doors. The minority of Members of this House who wish to raise this question, and who belong to
 1410 Horner's Memoirs 1411 a jeu d'esprit 1412 jeu d'esprit 1413 1414 "Security! You have security; the only security that you can ever expect to get. It is the present interest of France to make peace. She will keep it if it be her interest. Such is the state of nations; and you have nothing but your own vigilance for your security." 1415 "In the event of the internal tranquillity of the said Principalities being compromised, no armed intervention shall take place in their territories, without being or becoming the subject of agreement between the high contracting parties. "The Courts engage not to afford protection in the Principalities to foreigners whose proceedings might be prejudicial either to the tranquillity of those countries or to the interests of neighbouring States. Disapproving such proceedings, they engage reciprocally to take into serious consideration the representations which may be made on this subject by the Powers, or even by the local authorities." "On its side the Sublime Porte will enjoin on the Principalities not to tolerate in their territory
 1416 1417 1418 1419 1420 1421 casus belli Hansard 1422 The Times' Hansard "If, however, Russia should not consent to such very moderate terms as it will be our duty to propose, … I feel convinced that we shall before the opening of the next campaign have the alliance of Austria both in offensive and defensive operations."—[ Hansard 1423 1424 1425 1426 1427 1428 1429 1430 1431 1432 1433 "For myself I say that whatever measures are proposed, if they are meant for the benefit of the few and not to promote the interests of the many I would say, down with coronets if they are to ruin the nation! I have no objection to coronets ribands, nor to the gewgaws which illumine certain illustrious houses—illustrious by courtesy—provided they will keep all the pleasure and injury of them to themselves; but if we are to be robbed, over-taxed, and have unjust and unequal laws just because a few coroneted heads choose to have it so, then the time is come when the working men of Great Britain must look the aristocracy in the face, demand the why and the wherefore, and not be content with a shillyshally answer. One word more. There will be more money wanted ere long—the young Prince will want a wife, and then he will want a marriage settlement. I say let him get it from his father and mother, who have enough to keep them all. You must begin there. It is no use cutting off twigs and letting huge branches remain. I, for one, think that one palace is enough for one Sovereign." "It had been proved to the satisfaction of the meeting that they were governed by an aristocratic Government who were incompetent for their work; therefore it was the duty of every man to endeavour to destroy the system under which they had been so misruled." 1434
 MR. COLLIER  said, that, whatever difference of opinion there might be on the subject matter of the debate, or whatever the result of that debate might be, the House would agree in this that they were extremely indebted to the right hon. Member for Manchester for having provoked this discussion. It was true that the right hon. Gentleman, startled by the warlike echoes which his trumpet of peace had awakened, had withdrawn his Motion, giving an example in his own person of the policy he would recommend to the country. But the House was determined that this discussion should take place, and it had certainly been one of the most important that had occurred for a number of years. It had explained why our fleet had been useless, not only for purposes of defence, but even of blockade—why Odessa had not been attacked, why the Sea of Azoff had not been sounded, why Kertch had not been visited, why the communications of the garrison of Sebastopol with the sources of supplies and reinforcements had not been intercepted. The real significance of the debate had consisted, not in what had been said by the extreme peace party, but in this—that it had explained the causes of the failure of the war more clearly than the evidence taken by the Sebastopol Committee. These causes were, that they had had up to a short time ago, not only a peace party, but a Russian party in the Government. The policy of Lord Aberdeen's Administration had been shown to have been the result of two conflicting forces—those of war and peace; and the consequence had been that they had had a little war—a starved war—a war to be paid for by the taxes of the year—a war feebly and disgracefully conducted—a war which nothing but good fortune and the extraordinary heroism of our troops had prevented being one of the most disastrous wars in which this country had ever
 1435 1436 prestige 1437
 MR. LOWE : I think, Sir, it may be for the convenience of the House that I should say one Word on the subject, although
 1486
 MR. W. EWART  said, that he had hoped much from diplomacy. But, diplomacy haying failed, the obvious and only course now was an earnest and resolute prosecution of the war. He said this, still continuing to be, as he had always been, an ardent friend of peace. But he though it was a tribute to the cause of peace, when the principle was laid down that no European Power should commit an act of aggression without being made responsible for so doing by the other Powers of Europe. He thought, also, that we were promoting
 1444 "I can call spirits from the vasty deep. But will they come when thou dost call for them?" 1445
 MR. CROSSLEY  said, he had expressed his opinion when the war was declared that the interests of this country would be best served by acting solely on the defensive, and nothing that had occurred since had altered his views. In Paris, last week, while inspecting the Napoleon relics, he had been led to reflect on how much blood and treasure had been wasted in the wars of that period, and he feared the same thing was about to be repeated. When Russia entered the Principalities, we ought to have kept aloof, and not mixed up ourselves with the politics of Europe. The war being declared, he thought the best interests of humanity demanded that we should prosecute it with vigour. On looking at the Vienna protocols he came to the conclusion that the third proposition of the allies was not calculated to secure a durable peace. He thought so because it was contrary to the golden rule of doing to others as we would be done by. The allies asked Russia to reduce her forces in the Black Sea. Suppose she had asked us to reduce the number of our ships, there was not a man who would not fight to the death sooner than consent to such a degrading proposal. And we ought
 1449
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL , in reply, said, that the reason why cavalry officers going upon the retiring list only received infantry pay was, that the warrant of 1840, which created the establishment of retiring on full pay, and which strictly followed the recommendations of the Commission of that year, established a scale of pay which was an infantry scale of pay. Consequently, a cavalry officer who wished to receive full pay must either accept the infantry pay or exchange into an infantry regiment, receiving the difference between the regulation price of the two commissions. The warrant of last year made no difference whatever with regard to retiring full pay. It simply allowed the officer retiring to receive an additional step of rank, but no increase of pay.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he begged to inquire whether the papers which the noble Lord proposed to produce would include the proposition alluded to by Count Buol as having been made to the Cabinets of England and France?
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : I can assure you, Sir, that I never rose in this House with feelings of greater embarrassment or of greater pain than those which I experience on the present occasion, and, like my hon. Friend the Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden), I shall appeal to the generosity of this House, inasmuch as I am well aware that the opinions which I am about to express are not in accordance with those entertained by a majority of the Members of the House, and I shall make this appeal with confidence, because, being in the minority, I am sure of a disposition on the part of the House to deal fairly, if not generously, with me. It is painful to undergo taunts such as those which both last night and this evening have fallen from hon. Members on opposite sides of the House, who have accused these who are anxious, even in present circumstances, to obtain a peace which appears to them honourable, as being the auxiliaries and the friends of Russia. Now, Sir, it is necessary, however, to submit to taunts of this description, and the only
 1452 1453 1454 1455 1456 "Primus in orbe Deos fecit Timor." l. "O! miseras hominum mentes, O! pectora cæca." 1457 1458 1459 1460 1461 casus belli 1462 prestige! prestige ab antiquo 1463 1464 seriatim 1465 1466 1467 prestige. Sursum corda; 1468 1469
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he agreed with the noble lord, who had just resumed his seat, in his conclusion, but he came to the same conclusion on different grounds. He could not agree in that part of the Resolution of the hon. Member for Kidderminster which asserted or implied that the refusal of Russia to restrict the number of her ships in the Black Sea was the main and distinguishing cause of the failure of the negotiations at Vienna. No doubt that refusal formed one link in the chain of causes which had led to the failure of the negotiations, but the chief cause of their failure was the mistaken foundation on which they were carried on; and the fault lay with the allied Powers in proposing this particular interpretation of the third point, and insisting upon it as a  sine quâ non. 1442 1443
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I will lay on the table the last communication from Austria, with the answer that was made to it; and the hon. Gentleman will then see whether it includes the proposition he refers to.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I agree with my noble Friend, that, under the altered circumstances in which we at present stand—that, seeing that the conferences have been finally closed, and that negotiations are at an end—that the course which was suggested by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli), under very different circumstances, when the negotiations had not terminated, and when the conferences were not concluded, would now be the simplest and plainest course for us to pursue. We are at present discussing a series of Amendments, and many hon. Gentlemen have great difficulty in coming to a conclusion upon them. The question which the House has the right to consider is, how the Government has conducted these negotiations, and whether the House, under the circumstances in which the country is placed, is willing to give to Her Majesty that assurance of support in the prosecution of the war which I think the House will be disposed, by a great majority, to affirm. The course, therefore, I propose would be to agree to the adjournment proposed by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Sheffield. We shall, in the course of a day or two, receive the protocol of that conference which took place yesterday. We shall then be in a condition to advise Her Majesty to submit to Parliament those papers which will show the course of negotiation up to the last moment, and then Parliament will be in a condition to judge of the course which ought to be pursued.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, there can be no objection to laying on the table the last communication that we received from the Austrian Government, and the answer which was returned to it. I may perhaps state that we have received intelligence to-day that the conference met yesterday, and that after communication being held between the different Plenipotentiaries it was finally closed.
 MR. SERJEANT O'BRIEN  said, he was opposed to the Motion of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner), which was of no ordinary character, and involved considerations of greater interests than would appear from a reference to the mere amount of the grant. The establishment against which the Motion was directed was not the result of hasty or ill-considered legislation. For upwards of fifty years successive Parliaments had recognised, by their annual grants, the justice and expediency of the principle that some State provision should be made for the education of the Roman Catholic clergy. That principle had been adopted by their most distinguished statesmen—not alone by those who advocated the claims of the Roman Catholics, but also by those who were uniformly opposed to such concession. In 1845 it was felt by the Government of Sir Robert Peel that the amount of the grant was wholly insufficient for its purpose; they felt, also, the injurious effect of those irritating discussions which accompanied its annual renewal, and the necessity of putting it upon a more extended and permanent basis—and, accordingly, after much deliberation, and with the concurrence of unusually large majorities of both Houses of Parliament, that Act was passed which the hon. Member (Mr. Spooner) now seeks to repeal. He (Serjeant O'Brien) regretted that this question had been brought forward—not that he apprehended any injury to the object of this attack, from inquiry or debate—not that he entertained any doubt that the justice and wisdom of the Legislature would ensure the ultimate rejection of this proposal—but he regretted the perpetual renewal of these religious struggles—the effort to convert this assembly into an arena for polemical discussion—he regretted still more the embittered spirit that would necessarily be aroused by perseverance in a measure which evinced such inveterate hostility to the religion of a large portion of Her Majesty's subjects, which
 1490 1491 1492 l. 1493 1494 1495 1496 1497 1498
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he must congratulate his hon. and learned Friend who had just sat down on the fairness and ability with which he had spoken upon the question under the consideration of the House. That question was one which he was quite justified in contending ought not to be decided by clamour or prejudice. Though dissenting from the religion which his hon. and learned Friend professed, he yet recognised the force of the wise observation of an eminent man, that all forms of Christianity ought to be respected, because they all rested on the admission of man's weakness and the necessity of his appealing to the Divine power for forgiveness and protection. In dealing with the subject, he would beg to observe, that neither the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland, nor his hon. and learned Friend, had made out that the College of Maynooth should be maintained as it now stood, which was the real question before the House. That question might be discussed either on the ground of policy, of expediency, or of principle; and no doubt the  onus probandi 1499 l. 1500 1501 1502 "I must say that much of this vile vulgar spirit is to be traced to that wretched faith which is again polluting Europe with Jesuitism and Inquisitions, and which of all the humbugs that have stultified mankind is the most narrow-minded and mischievous. So much for the danger of my joining Messrs. O'Connell, O'Donnell, &c. 1503 1504 Life of Scipio Ricci 1505 History of the Religions Orders "Let it be then understood that, in speaking for the Jesuits, we speak only for innocence maligned, for truth oppressed, for well doing rewarded with evil doing; we speak as men long witnessing, with sealed up lips, one of the most abominable acts of injustice ever yet inflicted on guiltless man since the sentence of Pilate was pronounced; we only defend the truth against 'the buffoon and the sarcasm, the liar and the lie.' " 1506 Hibernia Dominicana salubria decreta l. 1507 1508 Index Expurgatorius Index? Index. Index Expurgatorius Index Index Expurgatorius. Dens 1509 "The Society of Jesuits must be looked at both in a religious and in a political point of view. In its religious character it is a society avowedly established to make war upon the Protestant religion. What wonder, then, that in a small country like Switzerland, where two-thirds of the people are Protestants, the introduction of such a society should give rise to dissension between Catholics and Protestants, and should be viewed with aversion by the majority of the nation? In its ecclesiastical character the Society of Jesuits is known to be exclusive and encroaching. Can it be surprising, then, that in Switzerland, as in other countries, a great portion even of the Roman Catholic population should look upon the Jesuits with jealousy and dislike? In their political character the Society of Jesuits have always been known to lean to arbitrary power, and to be averse to popular rights." 1510 1511 "Many of those who hold too strong notions as to the corrupting influence of money on the clergy have, I believe, drawn them from a consideration of the English Protestant Church as by law established, or from what modern historians disclose of the state of the Catholic Church previously to the Reformation. Such persons I would briefly desire to note, first, that the present establishment is just what it is styled—a Church by law established, and nothing more; that its wealth is odious, because it is possessed by men who do not work for it; because it was violently turned from the purposes for which it was originally given—the support of the poor and of Catholic sanctuaries and cloisters—to deck out a state-begotten withered changeling; because it is the trophy of victorious lust and sacrilege, and robbery and murder." "Because it is so often diverted, by those who share it most largely, to purposes so abhorrent from Catholic feelings, as in the case of the late Protestant Archbishop of Canterbury, who at his death bequeathed no less than 70,000 l. 1512 "I think that a State endowment of the Catholic priesthood would confirm and perpetuate in Ireland one of the worst, if not the very worst, of the evils of past evil times, an abomination unequalled in its own kind in the history of the civilised world, the source of so much bitterness, of so much iniquity, of so much blood and tears in former days; preserving, as long as it is permitted to last, the rancour it first so largely contributed to generate, the spirit of social disunion and strife, the division on the same soil of two distinct nations, two hostile parties ever warring against each other; not the just separation of church from church, not the legitimate struggle of creed with creed in fair argument by the legitimate showing forth of their respective claims to a Divine origin, but, on one hand, a mere secular, state-privileged, steel-girded, power-inflated domination of a favoured minority, with the profession and show of a mere Christian society; and, on the other, all the discontent and hate and other bad effects which such a domination cannot fail to produce in such a majority. It is unnecessary to say that I allude to the ascendancy of the Established Church." "The law of God binds us to keep a promissory oath. Catholic members of Parliament swear not to use any privilege vested in them to the injury of the Protestant church as by law established in these realms. Does this mean that a Catholic member of Parliament shall not exercise his power of voting in favour of any measure introduced for the purpose of diminishing or abolishing the temporalities of the Irish establishment, of curtailing the number of bishoprics or benefices of any kind? Or does it only mean that he shall not use his privileges to accomplish such objects by violent, fraudulent, or other unlawful means? In favour of this latter interpretation a great deal may be urged. If the former meaning be that intended by the legislative authority which framed and sanctioned the oath, the same end might have been attained in a manner not more offensive, infinitely less bungling and uncertain—namely, by having inserted in the Emancipation Act a clause depriving Catholic members of the right of voting on such questions. To confer on men the power of voting, and at the very same time to compel them to swear that they shall not vote except in one way, is a very absurd proceeding. Again, what is the meaning of the words, 'by law established?' Do they signify, established by the law as it stood when the Emancipation Act passed, or as that law stands for the time being? The first cannot be said, for the Protestant Church does not now exist in that shape. If a member of Parliament cannot vote against the church establishment, neither can he, as a member of Parliament, speak against it, for thus, too, he would exercise his senatorial privileges. If he enumerates the monstrous evils, if he depicts the hideous iniquity of this abomination of desolation, if he originates or openly concurs in any motion for its quick or gradual removal, he is a perjurer. Again, the Catholic member swears not to use his privilege to disturb or weaken the Protestant religion. So he cannot
 1513 nominatim denunciati. Cœna Domini 1514 Nation Cœna Domini Index Expurgatorius "That physical coercion is not to be used by the Pope, as such; but where the civil power may have laws sanctioning a recourse to civil coercion, it may then be used against heretics, provided those heretics are disturbers of the public peace; but they are to be punished not as heretics, but as disturbers of the peace." "With regard to the historical question in those cases where heretics have been punished, we are taught in history that, with regard to the heretics who have been known to be punished in that way, such as the Albigenses and the Vaudois, there the State was justified in punishing them because they were disturbers of the public order." "The Church has the right not only of defining and pronouncing that such or such a book, system of education, association, &c., is dangerous or formally anticatholic, but she has, moreover, the right of commanding the faithful, under pain of sin, and, if need be, under the penalty of ecclesiastical censures, not to read such a book or frequent such a place of education, &c. 1515 "But Cranmer decided according to the King's bidding, and became the King's true bishop; no clerical despot he, but the destroyer of clerical despotism, a truly Royal prelate, the corner stone of the new edifice of liberty, the great father of the Reformation—a mean slave, nevertheless, a hypocrite, a liar, a perjurer, a robber, a fornicator, and a murderer." "And give my property to a stranger, and make him rich and titled and powerful above me. Then you break my bonds and set me free, and preach content, and say that I am to blame for my own wretchedness, because I am not on brotherly terms with him, while he is grinning at me and vilifying me from the mansion of my fathers, and displaying his purple and fine linen beside my rags. I grant that religious rancour has been one of the chief causes of our misfortunes; but it was the rancour of your own predecessors. For our fathers there was no alternative but ruin with the true faith or prosperity with apostacy. Are we to blame because they preferred a miserable life in this world to eternal damnation in the next." 1516 Index Expurgatorius
 MR. KEOGH  said, he had listened for two hours and a half to the entertaining and discursive speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman, and, he was astonished at the introduction of subjects so unconnected with the question under consideration, and which it was scarcely possible any one could have anticipated in the course of this debate. The hon. and learned Gentleman, in discussing the regulations and laws which affected the College of Maynooth, thought proper to make a charge against the Roman Catholic people of Ireland, that they looked to and had obtained a Catholic ascendancy, and he asserted that the Roman Catholics were in possession of all the great offices of the State. But the hon. and learned Gentleman was altogether in fault in his assertion. He (Mr. Keogh) admitted that there were two of the law officers of the Crown who were Roman Catholics, and that two of the three Queen's Serjeants were also Roman Catholics. But there was the Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, who was necessarily a Protestant; there was the Chief-Secretary for Ireland, who was a Protestant; and there was the Undersecretary, who was also a Protestant. In fact, the heads of all the great public departments in that country were at that moment Protestants. Of the twelve Judges only three were Roman Catholics; the Lord Chancellor must be a Protestant, the Master of the Rolls was a Protestant, and five out of six of the Masters were members of the Established Church. Having made this statement, he thought he had disposed of that part of the hon.
 1517 The Times 1518 "The readers of Carlyle's works are familiar with a class of persons whom, in his own rather quaint, but not less picturesque manner, he designates 'windbags.' Now, the writer of the book before us is a genuine specimen of the windbag class." "We do not purpose in this place to express any leaning to either side; we are merely stating difficulties. It is of considerable importance that this piece of casuistry should be settled in one way or other." 1519 l. 1520 1521 1522 1523 "———cum plurima fuso Sanguine terra madet; stridentqne hastilibus auræ—"
 MR. T. CHAMBERS : Sir, the speech of the Attorney General for Ireland has
 1524 1525 1526 1527 1528 1529 1530 1531 1532 1533
 MR. ROEBUCK : At any time, Sir, I should be exceedingly anxious not to trespass at any length on the indulgence of the House, but I am more than ordinarily anxious not to do so on the present occasion on account of my weakness, with which I hope the House will bear. I shall at once proceed to state my opinion—for I am unable to argue the matter—why I think this war should be proceeded with vigorously, so that we may obtain—and I hope we shall—the blessing of an honourable and a permanent peace. The opinion of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Carlisle (Sir J. Graham) at all times meets with the greatest consideration from me, and I must say I had looked forward
 1555 1556 1557 1558 1559 1560
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : Sir, I have
 1561 "Bear in mind that if the Russian generals make no demonstration of any further onward movement, it may become essential for the attainment of the objects of the war that some operations of an offensive character be undertaken by the allied armies;" 1562 1563 brigandage 1564 1565 1566 Moniteur "Advices received from Kertch, dated the 31st of May, announce that, on the refusal of the military authorities of Genitchi, situate on the northern extremity of the tongue of land of Arabat, to give up the Government stores and ninety vessels laden with provisions for the Russian army in the Crimea, the squadron, under the orders of Captain Lyons, bombarded the place, drove out the troops, and destroyed all the stores. The enemy has thus lost, in four
 1567 "The Secretary to the Admiralty to "Vice Admiral Dundas. "Admiralty, Oct. 13, 1854. "SIR,—I am commanded by my Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, with reference to the operations of the fleet under your orders, to call your especial and particular attention to the necessity of exercising the utmost vigilance and care in preventing the movement of craft of all descriptions proceeding out of the Bay of Kherson and the River Dniester, and I am to signify their directions to you to take every precaution in your power to prevent communication with the Crimea from ports in that direction. My Lords are further of opinion that, whenever the means
 1568
 LORD SEYMOUR : I wish, Sir, to ask whether this despatch has been laid upon the table, because I think that if we are to have a discussion on the despatches, and if they are to be read on one side, we ought to have the answers to them on the other. I shall therefore move for those despatches, and for any answer which may have been received in reply to them. I hope the noble Lord at the head of the Government will not object to lay them before the House.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : The objection taken by the noble Lord is a fair one. It is a rule of the House that no despatches shall be read which have not been laid upon the table, but there are
 1569 "Admiralty, Dec. 8, 1854. "SIR,—I am commanded by my Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty to call your attention to their letter of the 13th of October last, No. 622, respecting an attack on the port of Odessa at any proper opportunity. "Although this question has been postponed, at the request of the generals commanding the allied forces on shore, my Lords are of opinion it should be again taken into consideration, with a view to an effectual operation, whenever circumstances will permit. "I am, &c. "R. OSBORNE. "Vice Admiral Dundas." The Times "Had this expedition been deferred but a short time longer, there would have been many and great difficulties to overcome, for the enemy was actively employed in strengthening the sea defences, and in replacing the sunken vessels which had been carried away by the current during the winter months." 1570 "Of the forty vessels sunk last year some still remain, and a French steamer touched upon one of them yesterday. It appears that the enemy did not succeed in destroying the coals, either at Kertch or Yenikale, so that about 17,000 tons remain, which will be available for our steamers." seriatim 1571 mare apertum. sine quâ non 1572 sine quâ non. ultimatum. ultimatum sine quâ non. 1573 ultimatum ultimatum 1574 status quo "I beg to record my opinion that, should England at any time go to war with Russia, and the seat of war be Turkey, you ought to take care to have a British fleet on this side the Dardanelles. This alone can save (and it will effectually save) the Porte from utter destruction, while Russia will be attacked in the only quarter in which she is directly vulnerable to Great Britain." 1575 1576 casus belli 1577 gendarmerie 1578 1579 Moniteur Independence Belge 1580 surveillance "An unnecessary continuance of hostilities would involve the most perilous hazards, the most exhausting sacrifices, a vast effusion of blood, and more than possible the horrors of a general war. And how was this proposal received? It was peremptorily rejected by the Ministers, the Council, and the Sultan, to all of whom it Was Successively submitted, 'for they are now bent,' says Lord Stratford, 'upon, excluding every kind of note, however carefully expressed. Unfortunately,' he adds, 'the motives to forbearance are thrown into the shade by the dazzling illusions of hope, and passion is in league with occasion to merge all fears of danger and all considerations of prudence in a wild, though attractive speculation, difficult at least to realise, and of which even the accomplishment would not be Unattended with formidable drawbacks.' Our Government seems to have been perfectly aware of the danger, nay, the almost certain destruction for Turkey herself, involved in a war. Lord Clarendon says that 'it would entail the destruction of the Ottoman empire.' And again, 'Russia would be effectually repelled; but Turkey, in the meanwhile, might be irretrievably ruined, and we might find it then impossible to restore her integrity, or to maintain her independence." The Times 1581 sine quâ non 1582
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, that the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down had stated that at the commencement of the war he was in favour of it, but that now matters have arrived at a point at which he was in favour of peace. Now his opinion was exactly the reverse of that of the right hon. Gentleman, for he (Mr. Drummond) had originally deprecated the war, and he now concluded that there was nothing left but to go on with it. There was one sentiment, however, expressed by the right hon. Gentleman which he was sorry to hear, because he thought it was unworthy of the right hon. Gentleman. The right hon. Gentleman alluded to his character in that House, and so did the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham), who seemed to have caught the same weak affection. Now, when Sir Francis Burdett first entered the House of Commons, Jeremy Bentham said to him, "When you hear a man appeal to his character in the House of Commons put both your hands in your pockets." The right hon. Gentleman needed not to fear that any one would apply the anecdote to him; and it was therefore quite unnecessary for the right hon. Gentleman to make the observation he did about his character. He was glad that the noble Lord the Member for Totness (Lord Seymour) objected to the practice of reading despatches which were not fairly laid on the table of the House; and in reference to this matter the House should bear in mind the extraordinary doctrine broached by the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham), that he might make use of the private letters of commanders (treating them either as public or private, as he pleased), and that he might use them in his own defence and justification. and as
 1583 Gibbon 1584 1585 malaise 1586
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, the question before the House was in substance this—that, owing to the refusal of Russia to limit the number of her ships of war in the Black Sea, the means of arriving at an agreement by negotiation were altogether exhausted, and there was no course to pursue but to persist in the prosecution of the war. Now, he dissented from that proposition; he did not think it was true that the means of coming to an agreement by negotiation were exhausted because the proposition of the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) on behalf of the Government was rejected. After the best consideration which he had been able to give to the whole history of this Oriental question, he thought that the first proposal of Russia was the one which offered the fairest prospect of their arriving at a safe and prudent adjustment of the present difficulties. He must be allowed briefly to state what he understood that proposition to have been. It was agreed by the Government of Russia that an end should be put to the preponderance of her power in the Black Sea by arrangements to be concerted with all the parties who were represented at the conference. Her Majesty's Government then made a proposal which the Russian Plenipotentiary declared it was impossible for him to accept, because it restricted in express terms his Master's Sovereignty in his own dominions. The noble Lord (Lord John Russell) had been much blamed for having admitted at the
 1587 1588 1589 1590 1591 1592 1593 s. 1594
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he believed that it was from no want of ability or sincerity on the part of those who took part in them that
 1595 1596
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he very much regretted that, as the Government had thought it right to send a special mission to Vienna, the opportunity was not taken to sift to the very uttermost all the propositions that might have emanated from the Russian Government. If the British Government had, from the commencement, determined to make the reduction of the number of Russian ships in the Black Sea a  sine quâ non 1597 apertum mare clausum mare. apertum mare. 1598
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, he thought that it would have been better to have adopted the suggestion of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and have adjourned the debate for the present; for at present they were carrying on a discussion which had no definite object, nor was there indeed any Motion before them which expressed distinctly the opinion of any party in the House. Feeling, however, that this was the most important question which there had been for years before the House, he thought it was the duty of hon. Members, more especially of those who represented large constituencies, to take a plain intelligible course with regard to it, and for that reason he did not feel justified in giving a silent vote. In all negotiations there must be a moment when, by the elimination or settlement of the majority of points under consideration, the matter in dispute was brought to a narrow issue. It rarely happened, however, that the point remaining open was one of small importance. It might appear in terms insignificant, but, upon investigation, it generally proved to have a very important bearing on the negotiation. So it was with reference to the Conferences at Vienna. The demand for the reduction of the Russian fleet in the Black Sea within a given limit—although apparently a trivial point on which to break off negotiations—was yet substantially, and yet more, perhaps, collaterally, a point of the greatest value. If the Russian fleet were restricted to four sail of the line, Turkey might be able to guard herself against any such a force. But if the Russian ships should be allowed to number fourteen or twenty-four, then it would be ruinous
 1599 per fas aut ne fas 1600 prestige
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he thought the hon. Baronet who spoke last was a worthy follower of the Government he supported, his speech being a complete caricature of their conduct and policy. The Government were satisfied with contradicting themselves in one night, but the hon. Baronet contradicted himself in almost two consecutive sentences in the same speech. He asserted that there was no distinct and intelligible issue before the House, and then he proceeded to admit that the propositions made at the Vienna Conferences were the subjects of their discussions. The leader of the House had himself admitted that the real subject of discussion in that debate was the conduct of the Government at those conferences. The negotiations had just been terminated—their final closing might have the effect of plunging this country and Europe into a prolonged war, and, having now arrived at what was the most important turning point in the history of the present century, were they, forsooth, to be told that there was no issue before the House? No doubt the question had been sufficiently perplexed by the introduction of the subject of Poland,
 1601 1602 1603 ad libitum l. l l. 1604
 MR. BRIGHT : Last year, when the declaration of war was brought down to the House, I took the opportunity of making a speech in opposition to the policy of the Government of that day. I was told I was too late; and it has been also said repeatedly in this debate that those who take the views which I take are too late on this occasion. It seems to be one of the consequences of the, I would say, irresponsible system of diplomacy in this country with regard to foreign affairs that we are never allowed to discuss a mischief when it is growing, but only when it is completed, and when no remedy can be applied. And now we are at liberty to discuss the conduct of the Government in the Conferences at Vienna; and, though we were repeatedly told from the Treasury bench that it might be injurious to the public service to discuss what was going on till the affair was concluded, I suspect the House has come to the conclusion that we have been pursuing our true duty to the country in the debate that has taken place. We are indebted to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) for having placed his notice on the table of the House, and not less to my right hon. Friend and Colleague that he, before the recess, moved the adjournment of the debate. I am satisfied myself that the people of this country have no intention to go wrong either in home or foreign affairs, and it requires only that questions of this nature should be frequently discussed by the intelligent men of which this House is composed to set before them the true state of affairs, and to bring them to a wise opinion with regard to the policy which is being pursued. Now, we are not discussing the policy of the war—that is, of the origin of the war. If we were, I should lay claim to being fairly allowed to be confirmed in the opinion which I expressed a year ago, for there seems to be a general feeling that the sacrifices that have already been made are somewhat greater than the results that have been obtained. I am anxious, in the observations I may have to address to the House, to impress my opinions on them, if it be possible to do so, and to lay before
 1605 1606 1607 "My noble Friend says, and says truly, that the attainment of all this would offer no security to Turkey. The value of a treaty must always depend upon the spirit in which it is agreed to, and the good faith with which it is entered into. No treaty can make a weak Power like Turkey perfectly safe against a powerful neighbour immediately in contact with her, if that neighbour is determined to act the aggressive towards her."—[3  Hansard 1608 The Times The Times 1609 ultimatum 1610 1611 1612 1613 1614 1615 The Times 1616 "My hon. Friend will see that by that act the Russian Plenipotentiary accepted this interpretation as the basis of negotiation, of course reserving to himself the power, when this basis shall have been laid down in a definite article, of making any observations on the part of his Government which he should think proper."—[3  Hansard "To ask from an independent Power that it should limit its force, is to assail its rights of sovereignty on its own territory. It is with a bad grace that they would sustain the rights of the Sultan and wish to attack those of the Emperor of Russia. The proposition to render the Black Sea inaccessible to vessels of war of all nations is so strange ( si bizarre 1617 1618 l. l. 1619 l. l. 1620 Murmurs 1621 l. 1622 Hansard. "They (England and France) feel that the cause is one, in the first place, of the independence of Turkey  * * * Hansard 1623 1624 l. l. l. 1625 l. l. l. 1626 l. "I am not prepared to give my vote in favour of any change in our policy which would attempt to make England a first-rate military Power. It seems to me that it would be little short of madness to attempt any such gigantic undertaking. It is our true wisdom to limit ourselves to that amount of military force which shall enable us to defend our own shores, and to protect our great dependencies abroad. If we can completely defend our own coasts, it appears to me that the objects of our national policy have been fulfilled." 1627 "I wish to see a cessation of that inordinate and senseless desire which has been sometimes expressed of late, almost usurping the functions of Providence, that we should go to almost all parts of the world to redress wrong and to see that right is done." "It is likewise to be considered, and I trust we shall none of us forget it, that this country holds an important position among the nations of the world—that not once, but many times, she has stood forward to resist oppression, to maintain the independence of weaker nations, to preserve to the general family of nations that freedom, that power of governing themselves, of which others have sought to deprive them. I trust that character will not be forgotten, will not be abandoned by a people which is now stronger in means, which is more populous and more wealthy than it ever has been at any former period. This, then, you will agree with me, is not the period to abandon any of those duties towards the world, towards the whole of mankind, which Great Britain has hitherto performed." "If, however, it should please this mighty Potentate to continue in the course of aggression upon which his father had entered, and if our reasonable hopes of a more pacific policy should be disappointed, then let him know that in England he will find a country prepared to maintain its own rights and the rights of other nations." "A country which, although its army has been placed in a perilous position, and has had to undergo the rigours of a Russian winter, has its resources unimpaired, has its revenue flourishing, has its trade substantially undiminished, has its spirit unbroken, and will be prepared, in case of necessity, to vindicate its own honour, and to maintain the rights and liberties of Europe." 1628 1629 1630 1631 1632 l. 1633
 MR. BARROW  said, he wished to observe, if the debate were not adjourned, that he should go into the same lobby with the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), not because he agreed with him in all his opinions, but because he would not fetter future negotiators.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he felt that it would be difficult to resist the wish of the House for an adjournment of the debate if such a wish existed; but he really hoped, after the length to which the discussion had extended, that the House would seriously determine to come to a division to-morrow.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished to know whether the measure would be extended to Trinity College, Dublin?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that it was proposed to abolish the stamp duty in the University of Oxford, in pursuance of a contract which accepted that boon as an equivalent for the payment of certain fees to professors, formerly paid out of the public funds. This was not applicable to Dublin.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he had expressed no opinion as to the propriety of abolishing the fees in all cases. He had simply stated a fact, from which he inferred the argument that if the abolition of fees were made gratuitous in other cases, Oxford
 1634 quid pro quo.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he should then give notice that upon going into Committee he should raise a discussion on the subject, as he felt certain the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not be supported in the decision to which he had arrived.
 LORD NAAS  said, that the argument could not apply with any justice to the University of Dublin, which, never having received anything from the public funds had nothing to give up.
 The DEPUTY SPEAKER  in the Chair.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, he did not rise last night to move the adjournment of the debate until he found that no Cabinet Minister evinced any desire to address the House; nor should he have attempted to prolong the discussion had he not regarded the question before the House as one of the moat important that had arisen within the last forty years, and therefore demanding the fullest and most deliberate consideration. Although the question before the House had been involved in considerable confusion by the cluster of Amend-
 1652 1653 prestige 1654 1655 1656
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that as his Amendment had now become the main question, and the debate was now approaching a conclusion, and there appeared to be considerable confusion with regard to the Motion and the Amendments before the House, perhaps he might be permitted to make a few observations upon his own Motion and the Amendments which had been proposed to it. When he first moved his Amendment to the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Disraeli), he stated his regret that the debate should have been brought forward at that time, and, notwithstanding the talent which had been displayed in their discussions, his impression still was that it would have been much better and more convenient if the debate had not taken place before the termination of the negotiations then pending. The House would recollect that he had not proposed his Amendment as a volunteer, for the subject had been forced on the attention of the House by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Disraeli), and he considered that the right hon. Gentleman's Motion compelled either himself or some other hon. Member to propose some Amendment to it. The object of the right hon. Gentleman was to obtain a declaration which would, in the first place, shut the door to all further negotiation, which would, in the next place, express the intention of the House to support Her Majesty in the prosecution of the war, and, last but not least, which would have the effect—the door to further negotiation having been closed—of placing the right hon. Gentleman inside and Her Majesty's Government outside that door. He did not complain of the course pursued by the right hon. Gentleman in bringing forward that Motion; but he (Sir F. Baring) could not assent to the right hon. Gentleman's decision to shut the door to all negotiations; he wished to convey to Her Majesty the same assurance as the right hon. Gentleman, of support in the prosecution of the war; but he did not, by any declaration of censure of the Government, propose to convey the administration of affairs to Lord Derby, Lord Ellenborough, and the right hon. Gentleman. To those views the House had so far assented that they had rejected the right
 1657 1658 1659 "In case (which God forbid!) the Sultan should be menaced by aggression, he reserves to himself the right to open the passages to all the maritime forces of his allies." "Whatever events may arise from the execution of the present Convention, the high contracting parties engage not to entertain any overture or any proposition, having for its object the cessation of hostilities, nor to enter into any arrangement with the Imperial Court of Russia, without having first deliberated thereupon in common." 1660 sine quâ non sine quâ non sine quâ non 1661
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, it appears to me that the course which has been taken has placed Her Majesty's Government in a very peculiar position, inasmuch as we are attacked in front, in flank, and in the rear by enemies who come from different quarters, and who seem to have nothing in common excepting their desire to attack us. By the Members of the peace party we are told that we have engaged in an unjust and unnecessary war, and that it ought never to have been
 1662 1663 1664 1665 1666 1667 1668 1669 1670 "The prevailing passion of the nation is the love of conquest, and this ardent desire, which burns as fiercely in them as democratic ambition does in the free States of Western Europe, is the unseen spring which both retains them submissive under the standards of their chief, and impels their accumulated force in ceaseless advance over all adjoining States. The energies of the people—great as the territory they inhabit—are rarely wasted in internal disputes. Domestic grievances, how great soever, are overlooked in the thirst for foreign aggrandisement. In the conquest of the world the people hope to find a compensation for all the evils of their interior administration." "Every Russian is inspired with the conviction that his country is one day to conquer the world, and the universal belief of this result is one of the chief causes of the rapid strides which Russia has of late years made towards its realisation. The meanest peasant in Russia is impressed with the belief that his country is destined to subdue the world; the rudest nomad of the steppes longs for the period when a second Timour is to open the gates of Derbend, and let loose upon Southern Asia the pent-up forces of its northern wilds." 1671 1672 1673 Obstare 1674 Principiis 1675
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER : Sir, my hon. and learned Friend in his able and eloquent speech has endeavoured to defend the Government from the vigorous attacks and rude assaults which have been made against them in this debate. He has descended into the area armed at all points, and done battle with all assailants. I am, however, not in the slightest degree interested in breaking a lance on behalf of his powerful antagonists on the other side of the House; I may fairly leave them to their own defence, and I am perfectly satisfied that, when the proper period arrives, they will show themselves quite equal in the encounter to my hon. and learned Friend. But when my hon. and learned Friend rose to deliver his very able speech I certainly expected him to turn the tide of this debate into some practical and useful channel; because I agree with
 1676 1677 1678 "In the empire of Turkey are several millions of Christians whose interests I am called upon to watch over, while my right of doing so is secured to me by treaty. I may truly say that I make a moderate and sparing use of my right, and I freely confess that it is one which is attended with obligations occasionally very inconvenient; but I cannot recede from the discharge of a distinct duty. Our religion, as established in this country, came to us from the East, and there are feelings as well as obligations which never must be lost sight of." "The more the Turkish Government adopts the rule of impartial law and its equal administration, the less will the Emperor of Russia find it necessary to apply that exceptional protection which His Imperial Majesty has found so burdensome and inconvenient, although, no doubt, prescribed by duty, and sanctioned by treaty." 1679 quâ parvâ sapientiâ regitur mundus! 1680 1681 "O for a falconer's voice, To lure this tassel-gentle back again!" argumentum ad hominem "Her Majesty's Government are persuaded that no course of policy can be adopted more wise, more disinterested, more beneficial, to Europe than that which His Imperial Majesty has so long followed, and which will render his name more illustrious than that of the most famous Sovereigns who have sought immortality by unprovoked conquest and ephemeral glory." 1682 arrière-pensée; Omnium consensu capax imperii, nisi imperâsset. 1683 "I must allude to a statement of my right hon. Friend the Member for Carlisle to the effect that he regrets that the Governments of England and France did not permit and sanction the conference going into the question of the fourth point, and did not endeavour to settle that before discussing the third. Now, on that subject I must remark that that point was far from being so easy of settlement as my right hon. Friend supposes. I had several conversations on that subject with the very intelligent ambassador of the Porte, who arrived at a later period, after the first point had been discussed, and who, when there was a question of considering the fourth point, talked to me very earnestly on the subject, and protested against any article being inserted in a treaty by which the Porte should renounce in any way its independence, and be made to depend on Christian Powers with respect to its own internal affairs. I thought that objection—though I will not call it objection, but suggestion—with respect to the fourth point a very reasonable one; and at the same time I saw that the Plenipotentiary of Russia, and probably the Plenipotentiary of Austria, would be very anxious to obtain such a settlement of the fourth point as would have enabled them in some way to control the legislation of the Porte as regards the Principalities. We therefore should have been in very considerable difficulty in discussing that fourth point, and I certainly could not have consented to any arrangement of the fourth point which, on the one hand, did not provide that such a legislation should be introduced into Turkey as would give fair and equal privileges to Christians along with Mahomedans, and, on the other hand, enable those other two Powers constantly to interfere in the internal affairs."—[3  Hansard 1684 sine quâ non 1685 1686 ultimatum sine quâ non 1687
 MR. LLOYD DAVIES  said, that after all the discussion, he was utterly unable to comprehend what the Resolutions before the House meant. He understood the question submitted to the House the other evening by the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, which had extracted from the noble Lord a reluctant explanation of his policy. The vacillation of the Government rendered it imperative on some one to ascertain in what manner the war was to be conducted, and on that occasion he gave his vote in favour of the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman; but he had since heard hon. Members severely criticising and vituperating the Government for their conduct of the war, who, on the division on the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire's Motion, had voted in favour of the Government, and one hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bright) walked out of the House on that occasion and would not register his vote against the Ministers, in whom he told the House last night he had not the slightest confidence. The general impression in the public mind appeared to be, that the war was attributable to the ambition of the Emperor of Russia, confirmed and increased by the vacillation and want of nerve of the Government of Lord Aberdeen and the representations of the three Gentlemen of the peace deputation, who went to St. Petersburg, and repre-
 1688 The Times 1689
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that the most remarkable feature of this lengthened debate was to be found in the great variety and remarkably contradictory nature of the opinions which had been offered on nearly every side on the subject of the war. Hardly a Gentleman had risen who had not, in some shape or other, started some new point bearing on the question. Even the Members of the Cabinet themselves—probably from the want of concert, or, possibly, because they had no preconceived opinions, had been contradictory, and the House itself appeared to be turned into a complete tower of Babel. The only exception to this remark was to be found on the bench below the gangway, which contained those advocates of peace at any price, who exhibited a unanimity of opinion on the subject of the war. He could not congratulate those advocates of cheap cotton and no war upon their recent association with the Gentlemen sitting beside them—the seceding Ministers. Gentlemen of so much sagacity as the peace-at-any-price party ought to know that they would inevitably share the fate of every other party to which those hon. Gentlemen had allied themselves, and would, in their turn, be betrayed and abandoned by their new associates. The fault he found with the speeches of the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden), and the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), was, that they betrayed their ruling passion for the one nostrum which, in their opinion, was to cure all evils—the one remedy which these Gentlemen recommended for every disaster was a measure tending to procure the importation of cheap cotton in a raw state, and at the same time enable the manufacturers of that raw cotton to export it. He did not underrate the advantages of this
 1690 1691
 MR. CARDWELL : Sir, the concluding paragraph of the speech of the hon. and learned Attorney General is one which, by the good feeling and judgment which it expressed, cannot fail to commend itself alike to the feelings and judgment of the House, for it deprecated making this great question of national policy a subject of party strife. I think, however, the House will perceive that the homily of the hon. and learned Gentleman and his conduct exhibited a marked discrepancy. I no not think that I should have been exceeding the limit of Parliamentary practice if I had risen in my place to ask if the hon. and learned Gentleman was in order, when, in a remarkable paragraph in his speech, he attributed to my right hon. Friend and to those who have seceded from the Government with him, motives of action so base that I should consider myself trifling with the dignity of this House if I noticed them; for, when the hon. and learned Gentleman said that the conduct of some Members of this House, upon a great question of national glory and independence, had been prostituted for motives so mean and contemptible as those which he ascribed to them, I believed that he transgressed the strict rules of Parliament, and, at least, I am sure that he departed from the principle which usually regulates our debates. When I listened to the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman which conveyed that imputation, I could not help remembering a former occasion, when the foreign policy of the country was under
 1692 "Now, is it not possible for the hon. and learned Gentleman to suppose that there may be a fourth? Is it not possible for him to speculate upon the possibility that men in this House may intend to give their votes without reference to political combinations? Does he exclude the possibility of that fourth course of action which arises from a conscientious conviction as to the truth? Is that excluded from his contemplation? May it not be possible that men cannot subscribe to a Resolution which asserts that a certain course has been best calculated to preserve peace and to support the honour and dignity of this country? Is it not possible that, without reference to party or personal interests, men may decline to affirm a Resolution which deals with principles of greater importance to the welfare of this country for good or for evil, than have ever been under the consideration of the House."—[3  Hansard 1693 1694 1695 1696 1697 1698
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, I agree with the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down that this debate, owing to the variety and diversity of Amendments which have been proposed, has assumed a somewhat complicated character; at the same time I think the noble Lord the Member for the City of London reduced the discussion to its proper proportions when he stated to the House, in the clearest manner, the distinct propositions which were included in those Amendments. The noble Lord said, and truly said, that two great issues were raised by these Amendments; the first of which is, if you are to have a continued war, what are the objects for which it is to be carried on? and the second is, if you are to have peace, what are the terms and conditions on which a peace might properly be concluded? Any one who bears in mind these two propositions of the noble Lord will immediately see that this debate, instead of being complicated, is reduced, in fact, to very tangible issues, and those issues, give me leave to say, contrary to the opinion expressed by a right hon. Gentleman, are such that this House neither can nor ought to avoid them when protocols and negotiations have been laid upon our table, and when we have been distinctly asked by implication to give an opinion on the conduct of the Government in those negotiations. Several policies from various quarters have been brought to bear on this subject, but the particular quarter to
 1699 1700 1701 1702 casus belli 1703 sine quâ non 1704 1705 1706 1707 1708 1709 coup de main 1710 1711 1712 "The revision of the treaty of the 13th of July, 1841, must have for its object to connect the existence of the Ottoman empire more completely with the European equilibrium, and to put an end to the preponderance of Russia in the Black Sea. As to the arrangements to be taken in this respect, they depend too directly on the events of the war for it to be possible at present to determine the bases; it is sufficient to point out the principle." 1713 1714 1715 ultimatum 1716
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he was satisfied that no one would impute to the right hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House that he was actuated by unworthy motives in the criticisms he passed upon the acts of the Government. He agreed that there was no duty which devolved upon the Opposition more imperative than that of criticising the conduct of the Administration, if they thought it deserving of criticism; and that there was no occasion on which that duty was so plainly called for as when the country was engaged in a war and its highest interests were at stake. He was also disposed to acknowledge that since the commencement of the negotiations hon. Gentlemen opposite had shown a most honourable and patriotic forbearance in the course they had pursued towards the administrators of public affairs. Undoubtedly it was their duty to see that there was on the part of the Government no ambiguous language or uncertain conduct; and the more resolutely they acted upon that principle the more they would benefit the country and do honour to themselves. If he were to criticise the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, he would say that he appeared to have narrowed the question into smaller dimensions than its importance warranted; and that, when referring to the conferences, notes, and protocols of 1853 and 1854, he should have gone back still further in order to ascertain the origin and causes of the war. After listening to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman one would imagine that the quarrel between Russia and Turkey had its origin solely in Prince Menchikoff's mission to Constantinople; that none of the negotiations antecedent to the proposition of the Four Points were worthy of reference;
 1717 1718 1719 1720 1721 1722 Cries of 1723
 MR. DISRAELI : I have heard, Sir, in the course of this debate, which has now been unusually prolonged, many different characters of our discussion. I have heard that it is a discussion without an object; that it is a wearisome discussion; I have listened to Gentlemen who have apologised for prolonging a debate that was tedious—there was a moment even when this House, now so crowded, seemed to tremble for its existence—four days having now elapsed since the debate commenced, it becomes my duty to offer an impartial opinion upon the subject under our consideration. Somewhat unwillingly—almost unnecessarily—I had thought it would be, having expressed some opinion on the question that engages our attention very recently. But unnecessarily, as I had hoped, it would be for me to interfere in the matter, I am bound to express my conviction that since I have had the honour of sitting in this House I have never listened to a debate of more importance, the subject of which was of more transcendent interest, in the conduct of which greater abilities have been shown, and in which a vaster issue has been at stake, which has thrown greater light upon public transactions, and has placed public men in a more intelligible position than this debate, which it has been convenient for some Gentlemen to characterise as one of insignificance. My opinion is, that it will be recognised by the country, not only in its immediate character, but also in its ultimate consequences, as one of the most important discussions ever originated and sustained in the House of Commons. But we are told that even the object of the debate is a mystery. There are Gentlemen—I hope they have not listened to so much of the debate as I have—who really do not know what is the point upon which we are going to decide. 1724 1725 1726 felo de se. 1727 1728 sine quâ non 1729 1730 1731 sine quâ non 1732 1733 1734 1735 1736 "In order to evade the stipulation of the treaty with England, which compelled Louis to fill up the port of Dunkirk, he made the canal De l'Ourcque, and insisted on continuing the work, in spite of all the remonstrances of the allies." History of England since the Treaty of Utrecht "The Treaty of Utrecht," says the noble Lord, "secured a peace only wrung from Louis XIV. when the nation was utterly exhausted by the expenses of a ruinous war, when his recruits had been conducted to the frontier chained like malefactors, when by that peace Louis XIV. had no longer to dread the presence of the enemy in his capital, or the cruel alternative of being obliged to dethrone his grandson by his own armies." History 1737 1738 1739 1740 1741
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman has adverted to the Motion which he made before the late recess, and, in the first place, stated that that was far from being a Motion which implied a want of confidence in the Government, or one which, if agreed to be, the House required on the part of the Government that they should abandon their position; and he mentioned as an instance in support of his assertion, a Motion which had been made by Mr. Sheil for the recall of Lord Londonderry from St. Petersburg, on which occasion, though that Motion was carried, the Government of the day did not think fit to resign. If we are to judge of the accuracy of the right hon. Gentleman's information upon the great subjects upon which he has been enlightening the House by the correctness of his memory upon that point, I think the House will not be much disposed to adopt the counsels which he gave them; for if the right hon. Gentleman wishes to refresh his memory by referring to the records, he will find that that was a Motion for the production of papers made by Mr. Sheil
 1742 1743 1744 1745 1746 1747 1748 1749 1750 1751 1752 sine qua non. 1753 1754 1755 1756
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he was anxious to offer an explanation to the House upon a question affecting the personal honour of himself and his two right hon. Friends near him (Mr. Gladstone and Mr. S. Herbert), Nothing could be more accurate than the statement of his noble Friend the Prime Minister, that he (Sir J. Graham) and his two right hon. Friends were parties to the arrangement that a proposition should be made to the Russian Government with reference to the diminution of the preponderance of Russia in the Black Sea which should require the limitation of the Russian naval force in that sea. They were parties to that proposal, as were also our allies Austria and France; but it was never intended to be made an  ultimatum; sine quâ non.
 THE DEPUTY SPEAKER  said the hon. Gentleman was not entitled to speak. Having waived the privilege of speaking when he moved his Amendment without remark, it was not competent to the hon. Gentleman to claim that privilege now.
 MR. LOWE  said, that as the forms of the House had prevented him from explaining his former Amendment, which had been much misrepresented in the course of the debate, he did not think it right to trouble the House to vote on an Amendment which had not been before them in the way he could wish. As to the Motion of the right hon. Baronet the, Member for
 1757
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  also abandoned the Amendment of which he had given notice.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, Sir, the noble Viscount has made a strong appeal to the House, in which I entirely and cordially concur, that it is desirable that in any question upon which there is not a serious difference of opinion, our decision with reference to any declaration on the subject of the war should be as unanimous as possible. Therefore, although I certainly should have thought the declaration contained in this Motion unnecessary in itself, yet since it has been put from the Chair, I, for one, shall think it right to support it.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, upon a previous occasion, when the words on which we were then about to divide were already announced, and were practically before the House, I stated what very much coincides with the view of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Kidderminster. I must confess, if I had the choice of the mode of proceeding, that I am not of opinion that the words now before us are altogether equal to this occasion. It appears to me that when the grave occasion arises—and a very grave one it must be—upon which this House thinks it necessary to pronounce its sentiments in regard to the question of war or peace; it ought, I should say, above all things, it ought to be careful that its sentiments are pronounced in a clear, unequivocal, and unambiguous manner. Now, Sir, I find myself in this predicament, that the right hon. Gentleman presents me with a Motion with every word of which I agree. I agree in regretting that the Conferences at Vienna have not led to a termination of hostilities, and I agree that it is the duty of this House to support Her Majesty in the vigorous prosecution of the war till She can attain to a just and honourable peace. At the same time, while I so regret that the conferences have not led to a termination of hostilities, I regret it much in the same manner as the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Midhurst; and, I am bound to say, in a very different sense from many persons who are of opinion that the course pursued by Government in this respect has been wise and expedient—a proposition which I am not
 1758
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, it was only within these few days that the ordinance to which the hon. Gentleman referred had been brought under his notice by a letter from the Minister of War (Lord Panmure), who sent him a despatch from the Governor containing the ordinance in question. He might say, however, that it was not at all necessary that that ordinance should have the sanction of the Colonial Office;—it was issued by the authority of the Governor of Gibraltar alone, who had authority so to do. He (Lord John Russell) had reason to believe, however, that that ordinance was hardly in accordance with rule, inasmuch as the regulations required that a draft ordinance should be promulgated a month before any ordinance having authority should be published. However, the matter had only been lately under his notice, and as his sanction was by no means necessary, he could only say that his attention had been called to it.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he did not know whether the memorial had been so forwarded; but, with respect to the second and more important part of the question, the Duke of Newcastle had informed Sir Robert Gardiner at Christmas last, when the period of his government expired, that he would not object to allowing him to retain his office till the spring. Within the last few days Lord Panmure had fixed upon the officer whom he intended to nominate as the successor of Sir Robert Gardiner, and when the name had been submitted to Her Majesty the new appointment would be made.
 MR. OLIVEIRA  asked the Secretary of State for the Colonies, whether his attention had been directed to the ordinance issued by the Governor of Gibraltar, entitled "An ordinance to prohibit unlicensed printing within the city, garrison, and territory of Gibraltar," dated the 18th day of May last; and whether the said ordinance meets with the sanction of Her Majesty's Government?
 MR. BRIGHT  wished to ask whether the Governor of Gibraltar had forwarded to the Colonial Office the memorial presented to him on this subject by the Exchange Committee of Gibraltar; and whether the noble Lord would inform the House as to the appointment of the successor to Sir Robert Gardiner? The Duke of Newcastle informed a deputation from Gibraltar some time since that as his term of office had expired, the Governor only
 1649
 MR. COLLIER  said, he also wished to make an explanation. He wished to disclaim the interpretation which had been put on a portion of his speech of Tuesday evening by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Wiltshire (Mr. S. Herbert), by which he was made to express an opinion that the right hon. Gentleman and his two colleagues, who had quitted the Govern-
 1651
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  said: I ask permission of the House to take this, the first, opportunity which I have been able to find, to make a statement in contradiction of certain unfounded personal charges which have been brought against me by the hon. Gentleman the Member for the West Riding; charges which he defied me to contradict, and which were repeated last night by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester. The hon. Gentleman has accused me of expressing "opinions utterly at variance with all my previous declarations of opinion," and he attributed my alleged inconsistency to discreditable motives. In support of his accusation, he referred to two speeches of mine; one delivered in this House in the year 1850 respecting the Pacifico question—the other delivered at a public meeting at Leeds, in the year 1840, respecting the Syrian question. I have read over both of those speeches. The first, delivered in the Pacifico debate, is reported in  Hansard. 1650 "We have formed an alliance with Russia, whose interests are hostile to our own in the East. We have lost the alliance of France, the only European power which has an interest equally strong, and a desire equally urgent with ourselves, to prevent the occupation of Constantinople by Russia. Who does not perceive that every wound inflicted on France by England, or on England by France, must be a source of rejoicing to the northern barbarian—an obstacle removed from his path to Constantinople." "As the fox, in the fable, when the lions had disabled one another, seized the prey for which they were contending, so Russia, more wily than the fox, urges us (France and England) on to mutual destruction, in the hope that when our forces are exhausted she may carry off the prey we would save from her grasp." "The question may be asked of me, are the affairs of Turkey of no importance to England? Is Russia to be permitted quietly to occupy Constantinople? I answer, by no means. I answer that the policy of England is to abstain from interfering in the internal affairs of other nations, and to insist that a similar policy of non-interference shall be adopted by the other Powers of Europe." "Let us say to Russia, we will not permit you to make an attempt to assume to yourself the sovereignty of the Turkish Empire. If you presume to interfere in affairs which are not your own, and menace Constantinople, France, united with England, will compel you to desist."
 MR. FITZROY  said, he did not think it would be convenient, on a Bill relating to the relief of certain Members from penalties to which they might have subjected
 1778
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, his attention had not been officially directed to the case in question. He had read the account of it in the papers, and he must say he did not understand the grounds of the decision. There was no doubt that the practice in question, and which had been declared illegal, did exist to a certain extent, and, under proper regulations, he did not think it was prejudicial to the service. He would, however, consider the subject in conjunction with the Court of Directors, with a view to its being placed on some more certain footing.
 CAPTAIN LEICESTER VERNON  said, that, referring to the present arrangement to obtain officers for the Royal Artillery and the Royal Engineers from civil colleges and public seminaries, he would beg to ask the hon. Clerk of the Ordnance, whether it was the intention of Government to take such cadets from the Military Colleges of Sandhurst and Addiscombe (the latter with the permission of the Honourable East India Company) as may on examination be found to be competent, seeing that such cadets are already militarily educated, that formerly it was considered essential that Woolwich cadets should first enter at Marlow, and that by giving commissions to officers volunteering from the militia, the line would be more than compensated for the loss of any cadets taken from Sandhurst to enter into the two scientific corps?
 MR. ELLICE  said, he could not avoid taking that opportunity of expressing a hope that the House would avail itself of the occasion to place this difficult subject on a more satisfactory footing than it was in at present. He was one of the Members of the Committee to which this subject was referred, and looking to the difficulty of providing for such an emergency as he was sorry to see take place the other day, he thought it was undeniable that no statute or Act had been passed placing the matter on a satisfactory footing. A great many of the duties of the Speaker were statutory, and others were laid down by the Orders of that House, and it was desirable that the question should be placed on a satisfactory footing. He hoped the House would take the whole subject into consideration, and make some satisfactory settlement.
 MR. EWART  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he was afraid that on the days when morning sittings were appointed hon. Members would reserve themselves for the business of the evening, and not attend to that which came on during the morning. Instead of fixing the Tenants' Compensation Bill for Friday morning, he hoped that he would fix it for some time when the English Members would have an opportunity of hearing the discussion.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he must oppose the granting of the Returns. No Commissioners had been appointed, and therefore no Report had been made. The Attorney General had been instructed to institute an inquiry, and such inquiry had been commenced. He believed that the hon. Member was acting as the agent of Mr. Holloway, whose object was to compel Lord Guilford to refund all the moneys he had received as Master of St. Cross Hospital. If he succeeded in that, he would prove himself stronger than the Courts of Law. Should the inquiries now in progress result in showing that the funds of the hospital had been mismanaged, the hon. Member might then move for the Returns.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished to ask what the loss to the revenue would be under this Bill?
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that in fixing the second reading of the Limited Liability Bill for Friday, he must deny that there was any intention on the part of the Government to withdraw the measure.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, the English returns generally were not satisfactory. With the exception of the West Biding of York-
 1783
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, in rising to oppose a Bill which had for its object the promotion of education, he experienced peculiar pain; but, being conscientiously convinced that the measure of his right hon. Friend (Sir J. Pakington) would tend most materially to interfere with the existing system without improving it in the least, he could not have any hesitation in opposing it, both by his vote and his speech. The hon. Member for North
 1794 1795 1796 1797 1798
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Those clauses were drawn up last summer, and were taken principally from Lord Brougham's Bill.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he would move that the debate be adjourned till Monday next.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he thought Monday next more convenient. It was of great importance to determine on the principle of the Bills.
 LORD NAAS  said, he begged to inquire of the hon. Under Secretary for the Treasury what steps have been taken to restore to the inhabitants of the Australian colonies the advantages of steam postal communication.
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Board of Trade whether Government intend to continue the collection of agricultural statistics in England, and, if go, whether it is intended to appoint the clerks of Unions as permanent collectors at a stated and liberal salary; and, whether it is intended to introduce any compulsory measure for making a certain class of returns imperative?
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he would suggest that it would be convenient to the House if some understanding were come to with respect to the mode in which the public business was to be carried on. On every day during that week there were to be morning sittings, but the arrangement had not been made in a formal manner. He begged hon. Gentlemen would consider what would be the consequences of having morning sittings every day. He felt he would not be able to bear a morning and evening sitting every day, and no one, he thought, could bear the consequences of an arrangement of that kind. Last year it was a later period before they had recourse to morning sittings to enable them to carry on their business, and they only took place on Tuesdays and Thursdays. But on every day during this week important business was fixed for morning sittings, while business of equal interest would occupy their attention in the evenings. On the next day the Metropolitan Improvement Bill would be taken, and in the evening there would be a Motion brought forward with respect to Decimal Coinage. The Capitular Estates Bill was fixed for a morning sitting on Thursday, and in the evening there would be a discussion on the colonial measure of the noble Lord. On Friday there would be also a morning sitting for the discussion of the Tenants' Compensation Bill, and in the evening there would be the adjourned debate on the Testamentary Jurisdiction Bill. He thought that, as a general rule, the rule of last Session should not be exceeded, and that the morning sittings should take place only on Tuesdays and Thursdays.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he wished to observe that there were grave objections to taking the Scotch Education Bill at a morning sitting. He also hoped that the Irish Tenants' Compensation Bill would not be brought forward at a morning sitting, and certainly not on Friday next. It appeared that there was to be a Com-
 1831
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he thought the wording had been inadvertently transposed, the stipulation being, not that no child should have a creed forced on him against his parent's wish, but that no child should be taught a creed without a written parental consent, which, in most cases, would be wanting altogether. Of the two, he preferred the Bill of his right hon. Friend (Sir J. Pakington) to that of the noble Lord, not only on this point, but inasmuch, among other reasons, as he could not agree to the kind of blank check which the measure of the noble Lord left to the Committee of the Privy Council to fill up. He was not prepared to give that body such an extraordinary power. They carried on too much by legislation on this most important subject already. What the country wants is something between these two Bills. As to those who sigh after some ideal perfection, who wish to see the Church the sole national educator, or hope to stimulate the voluntary efforts of various religious bodies to be independent of legislative aid, he sympathised with their wishes, but could not spend the rest of his life in concert with their unavailing regrets, and in detecting flaws in every proposed scheme. There are two classes of good men—one, who have high aspirations, but so fastidious a sense of the imperfection of all human processes as to preclude the possibility of
 1792
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that, after an
 1785 pro formâ pro formâ; 1786 1787 l. l. 1788 1789 1790 1791
 MR. SPEAKER  addressed the House as follows: I have to offer my sincere thanks to the House for the very kind and indulgent consideration it has extended to me whilst disabled from attending its service by my late accident. I have the satisfaction of knowing, that, owing to the very zealous and able manner in which the duties of the Chair have been discharged by the Chairman of Ways and Means, public business has not been impeded or interrupted in consequence of my absence. There is one circumstance, however, to which I ought to call the attention of the House. During my absence two Members, the Member for Aberdeenshire (Lord Haddo) and the Member for Bath (Mr. Tite) have been called to the table, and have taken the oaths and their seats. Now, the Acts which regulate the taking of oaths and the delivering in of the qualifications of Members of this House provide that it shall be done within certain hours of the day, whilst the House is sitting "with their Speaker in the Chair;" and I understand that doubts have been suggested whether these words do not make it absolutely necessary that the Speaker himself, and not any person appointed to act as Speaker in his absence, should be in the Chair at the time. No doubt the intention of the Legislature was, that the oaths should be taken in the most solemn and public manner possible, when the House was not in Committee; but I thin it very desirable that the House should consider the point. These two Members,
 1776
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, he was surprised that the hon. Gentleman should recommend that the three Bills should be sent to a Select Committee. Whether such should be the decision of the House he was unable to say, but he considered that it certainly was not a wise Parliamentary course. Should the Bills go to a Select Committee, he would invite the attention of the Committee to the question of the attendance of children at school. How was it that 1,000,000 of children were not receiving instruction? Mr. Horace Mann said it was not the want of schools, or the poverty of parents, so much as their indifference and apathy. The real difficulty was to induce attendance in schools. The last Report of the Committee of Council on Education was most valuable. That Report pressed on the public a most weighty consideration—that while they were increasing the number of trained masters, and local teachers, and all the machinery, of an advanced and improving system of education, the children attending schools were daily becoming younger and less suited to that system. Mr. Moseley, in his Report, stated that a hope had been entertained that as the children of the poor derived from the schools greater benefit than they had hitherto done, their parents would desire to send them for a longer period, but he could not conceal that they were disappointed in this hope, because in many cases the parents reasoned that the schools were so good that the children obtained all the learning necessary for them earlier than hitherto, and, therefore, they could take them away sooner. Mr. Moseley also stated that the only remedy for this would be to make, up to a certain age, attendance at school obligatory. In confirmation of this opinion, Mr. Horner,
 1793 l. l.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that they were approaching the time when, in accordance with the Standing Orders of the House of Lords, the House of Commons must dispose of the Bills which it was important to pass during the present Session. It was, therefore, important that the House should come to some decision on the subject of the law of partnerships in the present year, not only on account of the magnitude of the subject itself, but because the practice of granting charters by the Board of Trade in suspension of the general law seemed to be universally condemned. Therefore, he hoped that an early day would be fixed for the consideration of the Bill relating to that subject.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he would beg to ask the right hon. the President of the Board of Control, whether his attention had been called to the recent case of Græme  v. 1781
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he wished to inquire whether it would be necessary that the two hon. Members who had taken the oaths and their seats during Mr. Speaker's absence should be re-sworn?
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he should move as an Amendment that the debate be adjourned for four weeks. He thought that it was hopeless to expect the Bill to pass that Session, and to debate it was useless.
 MR. GRANVILLE VERNON  said, he begged to ask the First Lord of the Treasury whether the appointment of the Dean of Christ Church has been made subject to any conditions or alterations as to emoluments, or otherwise, which may be recommended by the Oxford University Commissioners?
 MR. WILSON  said, the state of the Australian postal communication was at present very unsatisfactory. Previous to last November arrangements had been made by which a monthly mail was sent by way of Singapore, and another was sent round the Cape. In consequence of the steamer belonging to the Peninsular and Oriental Company having been disabled, the service by way of Singapore had been stopped, and the other vessels of the Company being engaged in the Crimea, they were unable to supply another. The Screw Company which carried the mails by the Cape had been applied to, and a proposal had been made by the Postmaster General and the Treasury for a monthly communication overland by way of Singapore, and that it should be performed, if possible, by the Peninsular and Oriental Company. The Admiralty had called on the Company for a contract for the service, and the Company some months ago communicated with the colony on the subject, but had not yet
 1782
 MR. WILSON  said, it would be between 70,000 l. l.
 MR. WILSON  said, there had been no greater disadvantage than that to which large numbers of coach manufacturers in London, Birmingham, and other parts of the country had for many years been exposed by the very high duty charged on spirits of wine, which they used extensively in their trade. The subject had engaged the attention of every Government during the last twenty years; and the Board of Inland Revenue, acting on the advice of certain eminent chemists, had recommended that, by the admixture of a small quantity of naphtha in spirits of wine, the wine would be effectually spoiled for ordinary use, but not at all injured for the purpose for which manufacturers used it; and they might thus be relieved from the high duty they now paid upon it. The Board of Inland Revenue had recommended that course to be adopted, and the Government had acted upon that recommendation in bringing in the Bill.
 MR. MURROUGH  said, he would now beg to move for the Returns respecting this Establishment, of which he had given notice.
 MR. MURROUGH  said, he would admit at once that he had moved for the Returns at the request of Mr. Holloway, and he thought the House was bound to render that gentleman every assistance in its power in compelling Lord Guilford to disgorge some of the funds which he had secured as Master of St. Cross Hospital.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, he thought there would be no necessity for appointing a new Committee, as the evidence taken before the former Committee would be found to contain all the information requisite. The best mode would be for the right hon. Baronet to act on his own authority, and to introduce a clause in the Bill which he was about to bring in providing against such difficulties as this for the future.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he considered that forty-eight hours' notice would be quite sufficient hi this case if the vestries had a proper staff of officers, and such a map of the levels of the different districts as they ought to possess prepared beforehand.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that, according to the clause as it stood, any house, building, or drain commenced without the specific authority of the vestry or district board would be liable to be pulled down. Surely there should be a limit to the time within which such authority should be given.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he understood that morning sittings had already been appointed for Thursday and Friday next, and although it was no doubt desirable that this measure should be proceeded with without delay, nevertheless, it was to be remembered that there were limits to human endurance, and flesh and blood could not sit there day after day from twelve o'clock at noon till two in the morning.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that his right hon. Friend (Sir J. Pakington) had accused him of making use of figures which he was not authorised to make use of, but he could inform the House that he had used those figures on the authority of a book to which his right hon. Friend himself had referred in the course of the debate.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he must protest against the Scotch Education Bill being put down for a morning sitting, as he understood was proposed.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he saw that the Episcopal and Capitular Estates Bill was fixed for Thursday morning. That was a most important measure, with respect to which it was absolutely necessary to learn what was the opinion of the Government, and as yet they had expressed no opinion whatever on the subject.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he cordially joined in the expression of regret at the cause of Mr. Speaker's temporary absence, and begged to offer his sincere congratulation at his return. With respect to the important question raised by the right hon. Gentleman as to the strict legality of swearing Members in the absence of the Speaker, it was necessary, at all events, to confirm the acts which had been done; and he should, therefore, be perfectly willing to support the right hon. Baronet's Bill. As this was the first occasion on which they had had practical experience of the working of the suggestion of the late Sir Robert Inglis, of appointing a Deputy Speaker, he would suggest that if the Committee which sat some time ago on the subject was reappointed the hon. Gentleman who had filled that office during Mr. Speaker's late absence might be able to give many valuable suggestions as to any inconveniences that might occur in carrying out that suggestion, and the best mode of remedying them. He would submit that when the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey) brought in his Bill, he should move for the appointment of a Committee to consider in what mode the appointment of Deputy Speaker might best be made, so as to avoid any doubts or inconveniences that might arise from acts done by the House during the absence of the Speaker in future.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he thought that a month's adjournment was too long, and as the Limited Liabilities Bill was to come on upon Monday, he would propose Friday week, instead of that day week.
 MR. V. SCULLY  said, he had come over from Ireland at great inconvenience, but he now found that he could have spent his week better in Ireland than here. He had fully expected that the Tenants' Compensation Bill would come on upon Friday.
 MR. CUBITT  said, from his experience of building operations he was convinced that a notice of seven days would involve great delay and practical inconvenience to builders in opening the ground to lay their foundations. The existing Act regulating
 1779
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, he could not avoid expressing his disappointment at the speech of the noble Lord who had last spoken. He had expected to hear from the noble Lord, after objecting to the proposed measure, some broader principle propounded to encounter and remove the causes of that ignorance and crime which unhappily prevailed in the country. But, instead of that, the noble Lord had confined himself to objecting to various points of detail; and even then had not suggested any more efficacious modes by which to accomplish the objects which all must equally desire to see effected. The noble Lord had stated that the municipalities and parishes would not rate themselves, and yet he at the same time had said that these same muni-
 1799 1800 "Knowledge on them no lurid light hath shed; But faith stands there in education's stead." 1801 1802 1803 "As I before stated, every child in Germany, Holland, and Switzerland, for the last twenty or thirty years, has been receiving a good education. Of the men and women under the age of thirty-five, nine-tenths are well educated. They can all read, write, cypher, sing, and chaunt. They all know the Scripture history, and nearly all know the outlines of the history of their own country. Throughout all parts of these countries there are many of the poorest people who have learnt more than this, and know something of the general principles of science, or the principles of some particular science. Four years ago the Prussian Government made a general inquiry throughout the kingdom to discover how far the school edu-
 1804 1805
 MR. MONSELL  said, it was not the intention of the Government to select any cadets from the colleges at Sandhurst or Addiscombe. The cadetships to be given away in July would be given after the examination which had been appointed by the Secretary of State. It was competent for the gentlemen in these colleges to compete for the cadetships, and if their examination should be satisfactory, no doubt their claims would be fully considered.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he did not propose to proceed any further with the Committee that day, but as the measure was one of very great importance, and expedition in its passing was most desirable, especially with reference to the present advanced season, he trusted that the House would allow him to go on with the remaining clauses at a morning sitting to-morrow.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he would consider, before the Bill was passed, how far it was desirable to repeal the local Acts.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that the notice provided by the City Sewers Act was one of fourteen days, and he had already reduced that notice by one-half. However, he would further consider the point; and if the notice could be fixed consistently with the public interests below seven days, he would have no objection to insert words to that effect.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he proposed to introduce words requiring the authority of the vestry or district board to be given within a certain prescribed period.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that nothing could be more easy than to repeal all the local Acts, but there were some of them which it might be desirable to continue. He, therefore, hoped that the Committee would agree to the clause as it stood. It proposed merely to transfer the powers of the different Acts to the new boards. He looked upon this Bill as the commencement of good legislation for the metropolis, and he thought it would be better to postpone the consideration of the local Acts until they had the opinions of the representatives of the different boards on the subject. If the clause was passed, he had no doubt that the time was not far distant when there would be some measure brought in to deal with these local Acts.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he proposed that the blank in the clause should be filled up with the word "seven," so as to make the notice one of seven days.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that if the House should agree to the Bill he proposed to bring in it would not be necessary for those hon. Members to be re-sworn. With regard to what had been said by the hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Sir W. Heathcote), he had to observe that the authority of the Crown had been given to the appointment of his hon. Friend the Chairman of Ways and Means, as Deputy Speaker, during the temporary absence of the Speaker.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he begged to thank the right hon. Gentleman for his suggestion, which he thought it might be very desirable to adopt.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, before the House proceeded to the Orders of the Day, he wished to mention a question to which Mr. Speaker had called attention that day, relative to two Members having taken their seats during his absence, and suggesting that steps should be taken to secure the validity of the proceedings. He (Sir G. Grey) had been in private communication with Mr. Speaker and the right hon. Gen-
 1784
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the right hon. Member for Midhurst (Mr. Walpole) had suggested that the Committee on the duties of the Speaker should be reappointed to consider the question, but he thought it was the general opinion that it would be desirable to appoint another Committee.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was sure he was only expressing the universal feelings of the House, when he said that they deeply regretted the cause of the short temporary absence of the Speaker, and that it afforded them sincere gratification to find that the right hon. Gentleman was able to resume that Chair which he had so long filled, to the great advantage of the House and the public interest. With reference to the question to which the right hon. Gentleman had called attention, having previously received a private communication from him as to whether the two hon. Members referred to had taken their seats conformably with the strict letter of the statute, he (Sir G. Grey) had conferred with several hon. Members on both sides of the House, learned in the law, and others who were competent from their experience to give an opinion entitled to weight with the House, and they were unanimous in their concurrence with the view taken by Mr. Speaker, that a question might be raised whether the oaths had been taken strictly in accordance with the terms of the statute. They were of opinion further that the matter ought not to be left in doubt, and that some step should at once be taken to prevent that inconvenience to the two hon. Gentlemen who had taken the oath during the absence of Mr. Speaker, to which the right hon. Gentleman had referred. It was no fault of those hon. Gentlemen themselves that the informality had occurred; they were called upon by the right hon. Gentleman, who was at the time acting as Deputy Speaker, to come up to the table and take the oaths in the usual manner, and they did so. But to remove all doubts, and to relieve the two hon. Members from all liability, he proposed to introduce a Bill
 1777
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he
 1780
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had never risen under feelings of deeper anxiety than he did on the present occasion, being aware, as he was, of the vast importance of the issue which had to be decided that night. He felt also that he was about
 1806 1807 1808 
 
 In 1847, the population of the provinces of Upper Austria, Lower Austria, Carinthia, Carniola, the Tyrol, Bohemia, and Silesia, was 12,435,731 
 The number of children, in the above provinces, between the ages of six and twelve years, was 1,498,243 
 The number of children, in the above provinces, actually attending primary schools, was 1,332,367 
 Therefore the number of children, in the above provinces, between the ages of six and twelve, not attending school, was 165,876 
 In 1847, in the whole of the Austrian Empire, excepting Hungary. Venice, Lombardy, Siebenburgen, and the military frontiers:—the population was 18,043,241 
 The number of young persons attending schools and colleges, was 2,130,853 
 The total number of young and adult persons attending educational institutions, was or about one in eight of the population. 2,140,117 
 In1847,the population of the Austrian Empire, excepting Lombardy, Hungary, Venice, Siebenburgen, and the military frontiers, was 18,043,241 
 In 1847, the number of children in the above-mentioned part of the empire, between the ages of six and twelve, was 2,118,334 
 In 1847, the number of children between the ages of six and twelve, actually attending the primary schools in the above-mentioned part of the empire, was 1,434,258 1809 
 
 In 1847 therefore, the number of children between the ages of six and twelve, not attending school, out of a population of 18,043,241,was 684,076 1810 "Education Department, Council Office, "Downing Street, London, May 3, 1855. "SIR,—I have read in  The Times "I trust you will pardon me for troubling you with a few remarks on the right hon. Gentleman's speech, in so far as any statement of mine has been commented on—assuming the report of  The Times "I have not by me a copy of the report whence your quotation was taken, but I know that I expressly limited my description of the ignorance of pauper children to such as had not been in the workhouse school before. My statement was, I believe, that nineteen out of twenty of the children admitted to the workhouse for the first time were totally and heathenishly ignorant. From this fact I drew the inference, that notwithstanding the zealous efforts of the Committee of Council on Education, and of the friends of voluntary education, the grossest ignorance was still extant in a Christian country. "Mr. Henley's remark, that 6,000 children only were visited by me, is beside the purpose of his argument. The nature of my acquaintance with the educational dearth of this country is to be measured, not by the number of children contained in the workhouse of my district at one time, but by the area whence these children have been drawn, in constant succession, for a period of eight years. "The counties of which I have now had considerable experience are—Cornwall, Devon, Somerset, Wilts, Dorset, Hants, Berks, Oxford, and part of Bucks and Gloucester; and I speak of all in the same terms as of the five quoted by you. "I have the honour to be, Sir, "Your obedient servant, "JOSHUA RUDDOCK, "One of Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools. "The Right Hon. Sir J. Pakington." 1811 "The only other evidence he had adduced with regard to the quality of the education afforded was a quotation from some work which mentioned the number of men in a militia regiment who were unable to write their names, and were obliged to make their marks." 1812 "Education Department, Council Office, "Downing Street, London, June 7, 1855. SIR,—In reply to your communication of the 5th, I have to state that a slight and very gradual progress seems to be making in the improvement of the schools for the working classes generally. In those in towns that are under inspection, great progress has been made, and I consider it will not be possible materially to add to the efficiency of many of them, considering all the circumstances attending them. "My colleague and myself have been able in the last year to inspect nearly all the schools (in our five counties) that are under Government inspection, and I lament to say that his opinion agrees with my own—that the instruction and education of the greater number of agricultural schools is such as to give us slight hope that the condition of that part of the population of the country will be much advanced in the next eight or ten years. In truth, the support of these schools is mostly thrown upon the clergy, and the incomes of many of these is little more than adequate to their own needs. The consequence is, that the buildings are unwholesome, the apparatus and books deficient, and the teacher illiterate and of uncouth manners, and too frequently with little moral tone. "In Essex, lately, I have had instances of schools given up for want of funds, and many clergymen have written to state their schools were in such a condition they thought it would be only waste of time to inspect them. "I have made some calculations from the census return of 1851, of which the following is the result. The number of parishes and hamlets in the five counties is 2,068.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he thought two days would be inadequate for the surveyor to inspect and make his report, and then for the board to sanction his recommendation.
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, he would suggest that every arrangement necessary might be made by a Standing Order without an Act of Parliament. It was a matter of grave consideration whether they should alter those regulations in dealing with the office of Speaker which had been in use for centuries. The difficulties which had arisen proved, as he ventured to state the other day, when the Resolution for appointing the Deputy Speaker was proposed, that much caution was necessary on this subject. Whatever was done should be done with great gravity, after mature consideration, and with the authority of the Crown; which, in point of fact, was the source of the authority of the Speaker of the House of Commons.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he thought it advisable that the clause should be postponed, inasmuch as it was desirable to get rid of the conflicting terms of the local Acts as soon as possible.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the Commissioners had the power of making such regulations as they thought proper, and having recommended to the Crown a gentleman whom he considered eminently fitted for the position, and one who was imbued with the right principles of improvement, he did not think it proper to exact from him any condition as to the course which he ought to pursue. He was quite satisfied that that gentleman would be most anxious to concur in any measures which might be suggested for the improvement of the University of Oxford.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, Friday had been fixed as convenient for those interested in the Bill. If it was not so, some other arrangement would be made.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that during the present week measures of great urgency had to be considered, but he thought that in future it would be better to adhere to the rule mentioned by the right hon. Gentleman, that Tuesdays and Thursdays should be fixed for morning sittings. Last year, and also in the present year, the House of Lords had adopted regulations with respect to the period beyond which they would not consider Bills brought from the House of Commons, which made it important that the measures should be carried through the House of Commons so as to reach the House of Lords in due time. He was disposed to adhere to the rule that Tuesdays and Thursdays should alone be selected for morning sittings, un-
 1830
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the hon. Member for Aylesbury had stated that he would bring on his Motion on going into Supply, and it would be taken just as he moved it. He was not prepared to say that the Tenants' Compensation Bill would not come on at a morning sitting, but it would not be brought forward on Friday.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he rose to second the Motion; and in doing so wished to say, in the first place, that being well aware that the subject, although very important, was not so generally interesting as to excite much Parliamentary or popular enthusiasm, and also because his hon. Friend had gone through the principal points of the subject, he should compress into a short space what he had to state. He had complied with his hon. Friend's request to second his Motion, partly beause he had been a member of the Committee which sat two years ago on the subject, and partly because, however little acquainted with commercial matters, he felt himself competent to say that a great preponderance of opinion existed among the commercial classes in mercantile and manufacturing towns in favour of the change recommended by the hon. Gentleman. There might still be, as there certainly was at one time, an idea prevalent that any scheme for adopting a decimal system of coinage must be a vague indefinite idea, entertained by a few theorists, but not recommended by any great scientific authorities, or felt to be of any great practical necessity. If such an opinion now existed, he (Lord Stanley) would be content to oppose the authorities of Babbage, of De Morgan, of General Pasley, of Herschel, and many others who had been cited by his hon. Friend. There was also the favourable opinion of the Commission which sat upon weights and measures in 1848, and reported in 1851; of another Commission upon the same subject, which sat at a later period; and also of the Committee appointed by that House in 1853, which, he ventured to say, had approached the subject in a fair and impartial spirit, and which called before it a great mass and variety of evidence. In addition to those authorities, the change had the support of between 200 and 300 Members of both Houses of Parliament, not merely as favourable to a consideration of the subject, but as avowed partisans of the proposition
 1878 1879 l. s. d. l. 1880 1881 d. d. d. d. 1882 d. l.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, he quite agreed
 1883 1884 1885
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I think the House is under great obligations to my hon. Friend opposite for having, for the first time, brought this subject under its consideration. The first occasion on which the plan of decimal coinage, which he has detailed to the House, was proposed by any public body in an authentic form was by a Commission appointed in 1838 to investigate the subject of measures, in consequence of the yard measure and other longitudinal measures having been destroyed in the conflagration of the Houses of Parliament. That Commission was composed of scientific persons; and, in the course of their report, they expressed a strong opinion in favour of a system of decimal coinage, and sketched out in clear terms the precise plan which the hon. Gentleman has to-night laid before the House. In 1853 a Committee of this House was appointed to investigate the subject, and they examined many witnesses upon the plan in favour of which they reported—that plan being precisely the one proposed by the Commission. Last year a further Commission was appointed to report on the best mode of constructing measures, and that Commission added their testimony to that of the previous one in favour of the decimal plan of coinage now under our consideration. It is impossible for any one who has heard the speech of my hon. Friend to doubt the earnestness of his convictions, or of his being actuated by public motives alone in bringing forward this question. It is evident that he has devoted much time and thought to the subject, and is impressed with its importance, and it certainly deserves from the House their very best consideration, being a subject in which the whole community, from the greatest merchant and most wealthy banker down to the poorest day labourer, has a concern. But, doing full justice to the motives of my hon. Friend, it is necessary that we should
 1897 d. d. 1898 s. d. l. s. d. d. s. d. l. s. d. s. s. d. 1899 d. d. d. l. s. d. l. l. s. d. l. 1900 d. 1901 Geo. Vict. Geo. Geo. 1902 l. s. d. Vict. l. s. d. d. 1903 in Republica Platonis in fœce Romuli.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was here understood to say that he had, by mistake, quoted Sir J. Herscher's evidence erroneously.
 MR. HEADLAM  objected to this alteration in the Motion.
 MR. LLOYD DAVIES  suggested that it would be unjust when an owner expended a large sum in paving a new street, and when, consequently, no charge for repairs would be incurred probably for eight or ten years, to make him liable by charging the whole of the houses in the street with the repair of the paving in the other parts of the parish.
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  made a remark to the same effect.
 MR. CHARLES BUTLER  said, that in some parishes arrangements existed whereby exemptions were allowed from the paving rates in such cases as had been referred to.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he would introduce words to define the meaning of the word "paving" in this clause which would meet the objection.
 MR. HENLEY  expressed an opinion that the gas companies were subjected by the clause to restrictions which he did not consider just.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that the gas companies obtained Parliamentary powers to light whole parishes, but they were in the habit of picking out certain portions of a parish the lighting of which would pay them well, and of refusing to light other portions of the parish which would not yield them any profit. For instance, take the thoroughfare of Piccadilly, they would lay down pipes to light that street and the shops that were in Piccadilly, but they would not light the streets running out of Piccadilly. This clause would enable the local authorities to say to the gas companies, "You shall not pick out any particular part of the district to light; but you shall be required to extend your pipes to all the streets in the district."
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, a case had occurred in the parish of Marylebone similar to the one supposed by the right hon. Baronet. There was a gas company, and parties wishing to compete with it established another gas company, but that company wished to select particular streets for lighting. The vestry opposed them and said, "If you will carry your pipes through the adjacent streets, we will allow you to break up the pavement, otherwise not," The company refused, and the consequence was that they were deprived of the power of supplying gas to the streets they had selected.
 MR. CHARLES BUTLER  thought that penalties ought also to be imposed on the scavengers themselves for neglecting their duty, as was very often the case.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the scavengers were only the servants of the vestry, who were bound to see that they did their duty, and the defect in the law was that the public had no remedy against the vestries. There was no remedy against vestries or local boards for neglect of duty in removing nuisances—a duty which they undertook voluntarily to perform.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that he was always in favour of giving local authorities great powers, and thought that where persons voluntarily undertook duties they should be compelled to perform them. In the Nuisances Removal Bill he had introduced a very stringent clause, which had been unanimously carried in the Select Committee, which compelled local authorities, under a penalty of 5 l.
 MR. B. BARING  objected to the clause, because the powers given under it were too large, as they empowered the commissioners
 1863
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he thought that a Board that exercised such great powers, ought to be under the control of some executive officer of high authority.
 MR. HENLEY  concurred in that opinion. Under the operation of the clause as it stood the Commissioners might without check lay out money to any amount, and might, therefore, mortgage the local rates to any extent. He did not think it advisable when the Central Board wished to expend some 300 l. l. l.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  intimated that in order to obviate that objection he was ready to introduce words into the clause, by which it should be provided that before the Metropolitan Commissioners should proceed with the construction of any work, the expense of which was estimated at over 20,000 l. l. l.
 MR. CHARLES BUTLER  objected to placing the control in the hands of the Board of Works.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  proposed that the sanction of the Metropolitan Board of Works should only be required where the amount to be expended exceeded 50,000 l.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that by this clause all the rates that were charged on the occupant of a house were thrown into one mass, and made payable altogether. This would operate most oppressively on many tenants. A man might be able to pay 20 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that there was a further objection to this clause. By the law a man must pay his poor rates before a certain date, in order to be placed on the register. Now, if those rates were to be mixed up with other rates the elector in many instances might be unable to pay the whole sum, and thus he would be disfranchised.
 MR. CHARLES BUTLER  was of opinion that the poor rates should not be levied with the other rates.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  did not think that the clause would interfere with the elective franchise. The parochial authorities had the power of levying the rates at any time in the year they pleased, and they might levy them, therefore, after that period of the year at which it was required that all rates due should be paid to entitle the voter to have his name placed upon the register. With regard to the collection of the rates in one sum, though in some cases it might occasion inconvenience, he saw no means of avoiding it, unless they incurred an additional expense in collecting the rates separately.
 MR. HENLEY  considered that the collection of all these local rates with the poor rates in one lumped sum would inflict great hardship upon the poorer class of ratepayers.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  consented to introduce an amendment providing that, while adhering to the principle of consolidating
 1865
 CAPTAIN LEICESTER VERNON , adverting to the intention of placing the Ordnance Military Corps under the Commander in Chief, to the pressing necessity for keeping up the effective strength of the corps of Royal Engineers, and to the present half-pay list of that corps, wished to ask the Under Secretary for War, whether it was the intention of the Government to make any arrangements whereby officers of the corps of Royal Engineers on half-pay, who were able and willing to serve, but who, from its being a seniority corps, were debarred from returning to its effective strength, might equally, with other half-pay and unattached officers, be employed on the staff of the army, or be appointed to such civil positions under Government as were now held by officers of Royal Engineers on full pay, who would then be enabled to return to the duty-roster of the corps, whereby the State would have the services of every available officer of Royal Engineers, whether on full pay or on half-pay?
 MR. LAYARD : I will at once give notice that I will bring the subject before the House in the shape of a substantive Motion on Friday.
 MR. LAYARD : I am quite willing to leave myself in the hands of the House,—either to bring my Motion forward as a substantive Motion, or on going into Committee of Supply, provided that I can bring it forward on Friday or on some early day.
 MR. DISRAELI : It seems to be the general feeling of the House that the Motion should be a substantive one, and I conclude therefore, that it is understood that it will be brought forward as such on
 1867
 SIR BULWER LYTTON : Sir, I wish to ask the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government a question with respect to the business of this House for Friday next. On that day I believe the hon. Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Layard) intends to bring forward his Motion on the subject of administrative reform on the Order of the day for going into Committee of Supply. According to the rules of the House, no Amendment to a Motion thus made can be entertained. Yet, Sir, there are hon. Gentlemen on both sides of
 1866
 MR. CARDWELL :—It was most important that the opinion of this eminent authority should not be misunderstood. Sir J. Herschel had also been supposed to have stated that he thought it would require a period of twenty years to enable them to effect a transition to a decimal system of accounting; but what he had really said was, that if they attempted to call in all their present coin, and substitute for it coin having on the back of it imprints containing the precise fraction of a pound (which was one part of the scheme for general convenience), they could not expect to accomplish that process within less than twenty years. That, however, was a totally different statement from the other, and had nothing to do with the possibility of introducing to-morrow a system of decimal coinage and decimal accounts. It had been argued that a silver coin to be called a "cent," would be of an inconvenient size for minting purposes, being only of the value of twopence and two-fifths of a penny; but they were already all familiar with threepenny pieces, which were very little larger. Again, as to the mil to be coined in copper, it would be only 4 per cent. less than our present farthing, and the difference between the two as to size would be totally inappreciable. It was said that the poorer classes
 1905 minimum seriatim 1906 1907
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he was not surprised that his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, was not prepared at once to take a step to alter the coinage, because there could be no doubt that, whatever were the scientific merits of the question, the practical view of the subject was to consider whether the time had arrived in which the people were prepared to submit to a change. He wished the House, however, to bear in mind this important fact, that they were not dealing with a variety of plans, but with a plan recommended by the Commission of 1838,
 1904
 MR. WARNER  hoped that the hon. Member for South Lancashire would not consent to withdraw any part of his Resolutions.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, the humorous speech they had just heard had left him more than ever convinced of the desirability of adopting the proposed plan. In the first place he denied every one of the hon. Gentleman's assertions. In every foreign country in which the decimal system had been adopted a uniform advantage had been derived from it by the poorer classes. Let any hon. Member go to the market at Brussels, and he would find how easy it was to purchase fruit and vegetables under a system in which the franc was divided into 100 parts, and the centime into ten. The labouring classes
 1891
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  regretted that some member of the Government had not risen to express any opinion upon a question of such considerable and consummate importance. He had not yet heard a single argument against the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for South Lancashire, notwithstanding the facetious speech of the hon. and learned Member for Kidderminster. The hon. and learned Gentleman had stated that those who had subscribed for the support of a decimal system had done so without a knowledge of the particular system proposed by what was called the Decimal Association, which, after all, was only the plan proposed by the Parliamentary Committee, and made patent to the world. Among the subscribers to the Decimal Association he found the Bank of England for 100 l. l. l. 1894 l. s. d. 1895 1896
 MR. LOWE  said, he had made it his business to look into this question, and he had formed a strong opinion upon it; but an opinion quite different from that of the hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. W. Brown). He thought that the authorities which had been cited by the hon. Member for South Lancashire in favour of his Resolution had in some degree been perverted from their original intention.
 1886 modus decimandi 1887 1888 d. d. 1889 ad infinitum; ad infinitum s ad infinitum. ad infinitum. d. 1890 d.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  considered it was perfectly competent for them to act upon the information they possessed, and adopt a decimal system, without regard to any congress of nations. It would be only consistent with the general progress and intelligence of which Englishmen were in the habit of boasting, to take some means to put an end to the present system, which appeared to him to be a disgrace and a discredit to this great commercial country. The hon. Member for South Lancashire was reproached for not proposing a decimal system of weights and measures as well as of money; but he presumed the hon. Member thought it was better to proceed by steps, and that he intended, if he convinced the House of the expediency of a decimal coinage, to follow it up with a similar system of weights and
 1892 l. 1893
 MR. V. SCULLY : I stated on a former evening that I considered the Motion of the hon. Member for Aylesbury to be objectionable in its terms, as it merely expresses a censure of past mismanagement; and I have, therefore, given notice that I shall move an Amendment to that Motion, which, without blaming any persons for former occurrences, will set forth the necessity of a substantial administrative reform for the future.
 MR. W. BROWN  said, I cannot understand why the war in which we are so unhappily engaged should prevent our making social progress. I, consequently, deemed it right to bring before the House a subject which I consider of much national importance, the decimalising of our coins, weights, and measures; and hope I may have the ear of the House in the discussion of an abstract question, on which you cannot expect to excite much enthusiasm. I am, however, in this fortunate position, that I hear of no dissentients from the principle—the only question is how best to accomplish the end. Probably I will he better understood if I speak of new farthings, which are 1–25 or 4 per cent less value than the present farthing. I will, therefore, proceed to bring before the House evidence which I think cannot be resisted, in favour of adopting the Report of the Decimal Coinage Committee, confining myself to the coinage; as I consider that weights and measures must follow, as matter of course. The decimal question was introduced into the House by Sir John
 1868 Economy of Manufactures: "Having inspected the state of the standards recovered from the ruins of the Houses of Parliament; having collected the evidence of many persons from various classes, upon different points relating to, the general question of standards; having examined the most important publications upon it; having made themselves acquainted with the state of the law in several foreign countries; and having attentively considered the subject in all its bearings; have the honour to submit the following Report:—'V. The first point which has called for our special notice is the general question of decimal scale. In introducing this subject, we beg leave to invite the attention of the Government to the advantage and the facility of establishing in this country a decimal system of coinage. In our opinion, no single change which it is in the power of a Government to effect in our monetary system, would be felt by all classes as equally beneficial with this, when the temporary inconvenience attending the change had passed away. The facility consists in the ease of interposing between the sovereign (or pound) and the shilling, a new coin equivalent to two shillings (to be called by a distinctive name); of considering the farthing (which now passes as the 1–960th of the pound) as the 1–1000th part of that unit; of establishing a coin of value equal to l–100th part of the pound; and of circulating
 1869 Edinburgh Review "That little doubt can be entertained of the expediency of employing all the powers of the Government for the purpose of hastening the completion of the changes." "I have no objection to the system of a decimal currency; but you must not, as your proposal does, take the penny as the basis, and make your coins multiples of a penny. The unit of British currency, the basis upon which everything else depends, and by reference to which the value of every other coin is determined, is the pound sterling. We should get into inextricable confusion if we departed from this." 1870
 MR. W. BROWN , in reply, said that his motive in moving the Address to the Crown was not to embarrass the Government, but if it were thought that any such embarrassment would ensue, he had no objection to leave out that part of the Resolution, and simply to move "that in the opinion of this House, the initiation of the decimal system of coinage, by the issue of the florin, has been eminently successful and satisfactory, and that a further extension of such system will be of great public advantage."
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, it did not appear that it would be necessary to make any arrangement to carry out the object to which the hon. and gallant Gentleman referred. There was nothing in the shape of a regulation in existence to prevent officers of Engineers on half-pay from being employed in the manner which the hon. Gentleman proposed. The number of such officers was very limited, and no intimation of a wish for active service had been made.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  hoped his hon. Friend would be induced to follow the recommendations of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, backed, as it had been, by the opinion of his right hon. Friend the Member for Oxford (Mr. Cardwell), and would be content with the discussion to which his Motion had given rise, and not press the House to a division.
 1908
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : All I can state is, that if the hon. Gentleman the Member for Aylesbury, who can shape his Motion as he likes, will give notice this evening of a substantive Motion for Friday, I will engage to move on that day that the Orders of the Day be postponed until after that Motion shall have been disposed of. I take it for granted that in that case notice of any Amendments to be proposed to the Motion will be placed upon the paper in sufficient time to allow of their being considered by hon. Members beforehand.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I have already stated that the Motion of the hon. Member for Aylesbury would have precedence on Friday on going into a Committee of Supply, and that, if other hon. Gentlemen who had notices of Motion did not consent to waive them, I should move that the Orders of the Day be postponed until after the Motion of the hon. Member for Aylesbury should have been disposed of. I can assure the hon. Baronet and the House, that the Government have no wish except that the question should receive the fullest discussion in the manner most calculated to enable every man to express his opinion as he may think fit; and if the House should prefer, and the hon. Gentleman the Member for Aylesbury should himself prefer, instead of his Motion being brought on as an Amendment to the Motion that the Speaker leave the Chair in order that the House may go into Committee of Supply, to make it a substantive Motion, I shall have no objection to make an arrangement to enable him to bring it forward in that shape.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, that in
moving that the House go into step that might induce the working classes to
resort to a system of "tick" or running into debt, instead of paying ready-money
on the Sunday morning. Their Committee on this Bill he must appeal to the hon.
Members for Newport (Mr. Massey), and for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe), who had
given notices of Motions—the first, that the Bill be committed that day
three months; the second, to extend its operation to Great Britain and
Ireland—not to press their Motions. With regard to the first, the Bill
had been read a second time at a very early hour in the day, when it was quite
competent for any hon. Member to have stated whatever objections he entertained
to its principle— as, indeed, the hon. Hember for Lambeth (Mr.
Wilkinson), and other hon. Members had done; and the House on that occasion
determined that the principle of the Bill was one which it would accept, and,
therefore, that its provisions should be considered in Committee. Under those
circumstances, he thought the time was gone by for the hon. Gentleman's Motion.
With regard to the Motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury, the subject had been
frequently discussed in that House, which had always rejected the proposition;
and it was, therefore, scarcely worth while to delay the progress of this Bill,
which was to affect the metropolis only, by renewing the discussion on the
larger question.
 MR. MASSEY  said, that in moving that the
Bill be committed that day three months, he must own that an apology was due to
the noble Lord, the Member for Middlesex, for not having brought forward this
Motion at a former stage, but he had been unavoidably absent on that occasion,
otherwise he should certainly have done so; and, as his objections to the Bill
continued in full force, he felt bound to state them now. His objections did not
arise
 1912 1913 1914 1915 d d. 1916 l.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he was confirmed in
his approval of the Bill of his noble Friend by seeing that the hon. Gentleman
who had just addressed the House, and who had evidently devoted some care and
attention to the subject, had not been able to make out a stronger case in
support of his opinions than he had done. The
 1917 1918 1919 1920
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, it was his
conviction that a great change had been going on during the last fifty years in
the manners and habits of the people of the metropolis, and he was fully
satisfied that the progress of civilising influences might be safely left to
work out its own results without interfering by legislative enactments to put
down Sunday trading. It was true, as the noble Lord (Lord Stanley) had stated,
that this Bill was not satisfactory to a certain class of the religious world,
and hon. Members must take care that in propitiating one class they did not
offend another. The Sabbatarians were already remonstrating against this Bill as
not being of a sufficiently restrictive character.
 1921 1922
 MR. KER SEYMER  said, that the hon.
Gentleman (Mr. Massey), who had moved the Amendment congratulated the House that
this had not been made a religious question. But, although he (Mr. Seymer)
agreed that the measure could not be regarded as a religious one, he was
unwilling to look upon the Sabbath as a mere day of rest. He believed that it
would not be for the interest of the working classes that it should be so
considered, for he felt convinced that, in order to make that a people's day, it
should first be made a Lord's day. They had been told that there were many parts
of the metropolis in which such a Bill would not be required. It should,
however, be remembered that those districts would not be affected by its
provisions; but he believed there were other portions of the town in which it
might most usefully be brought into operation. He had himself visited
Houndsditch on Sunday last, at about eleven o'clock, for the purpose of seeing
what was the character of the Sunday fair which was known to take place in that
quarter; and he would tell the House what had been the result of his inquiries.
With some difficulty he had entered a very crowded street, which led to the spot
in which the principal mart was held. The first thing that struck him in the
place was a large placard with the inscription "Liberty of the subject in
danger," and containing an announcement that a meeting was to be held in
reference to the Bill then under the consideration of the House. But what was
that "liberty of the subject?" It
 1923
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he should support
the Bill because he believed the welfare of the working classes of London
 1924
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he could not but
observe that the promoters of this Bill appeared particularly reluctant to
discuss the Bill on its merits. The Bill was brought in without discussion or
explanation, and, on the second reading, the noble Lord (Lord Robert Grosvenor)
tried to coax the House against discussing it on that occasion, by stating that
the House had already, on several previous occasions, affirmed the principle of
a Bill for prohibiting Sunday trading. He should certainly take the sense of the
House upon the question of going into Committee. The inhabitants of the
metropolis objected to have experiments of this kind tried on them; let the case
be reversed, and if the measure succeeded in the rest of the kingdom the
metropolis would then think, perhaps, about adopting it. A great deal of trading
went on in other large towns, and if the Bill were so perfect, why should the
metropolis monopolise its benefits? He believed that if his proposition were
agreed to, many hon. Members who now supported the Bill would combine to kick it
out of the House. Where did the hon. Member for Dorsetshire (Mr. K. Seymer)
derive the information that the goods he had seen exposed for sale in
Houndsditch were stolen? If they were stolen, it was the hon. Gentleman's duty
to inform the policeman of the fact, and give the thieves into custody; but he
thought the hon. Gentleman would have been much better employed in attending his
parish church than in spending his Sunday in Houndsditch. Having seen the
iniquities he had described, the hon. Gentleman ought to have gone at once to
the Lord Mayor, within whose jurisdiction they had taken place, and whose duty
it was to put a stop to them. Why should the House interfere if the Lord Mayor
did not? He objected to the Bill, because it was much more stringent than any
which had previously been brought forward, and he
 1925 Charles 1926
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he disliked the
insinuation contained in the title of the Bill, that its object was to prevent
unnecessary trading on the Sunday. In point of fact, unnecessary trading on the
Sunday could only be trading by the rich. But there was a positive necessity for
many of the poor to trade on the Sunday. In addition to the reasons stated by
the hon. Member who had just sat down, let the House remember that there were no
less than 150,000 families in London who inhabited only single rooms. Those
people could not buy anything that was liable to become corrupt in the course of
the Saturday night. If they were to bring in a honest Bill to shut up the clubs
on Sundays he would not oppose it, but he would not support this Bill, which
appeared to him unjust in every way.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he had received
numerous communications from that part of the country with which he had the
honour to be connected, all strenuously opposed to the further progress of this
Bill. The whole tenour of their representations was, that they would gladly
support any Bill which would prevent unnecessary trading on the Sunday, but they
considered that the exceptions in this Bill militated against the principle of
the measure. Concurring in this view, he felt it his duty to oppose the further
progress of the Bill.
 MR. WILKINSON  said, many of his
constituents were in favour of the Bill, and many were against it. But he had a
conscientious objection to the Bill, which he thought was a mistaken piece of
legislation. He was as much opposed to Sunday trading as any one, and he
believed that it was continued rather in deference to the people, who were
accustomed to Sunday trading, than in accordance with the wishes of the
shopkeepers who keep their shops open. He considered this to be quite a
religious question, and if it was, then he agreed with his hon. Friend the
Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe) that this measure did not go far enough.
The hon. Member for Dorsetshire (Mr. K. Seymer) had spoken of a particular
district, but he apprehended that was a district inhabited principally by
Jews.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had not
 1927
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he should support the
Amendment, because he preferred to be guided by the opinion of Sir Richard
Mayne, rather than by that of the extraordinary policeman to whom the hon.
Member for Dorsetshire had referred, and it was Sir Richard Mayne's opinion that
any attempt to deal with the subject by legislation would only aggravate the
evil. The hon. Gentleman had referred to the attempt some man was making to
obtain signatures to a petition, but was there not in London a regularly
organised system of petition mongering? Was there not a paid secretary and a
staff for every agitation that was raised, who went about pestering people for
signatures to petitions upon subjects they knew nothing about? There were from
30,000 to 50,000 poor people engaged till twelve o'clock every Saturday night in
the streets of London in the sale of small articles, and why were they not to be
allowed to purchase necessaries upon a Sunday morning? The rich were the
greatest violators of the law. Why, there
 1928
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he must beg to
explain, in consequence of the reference made to him by the right hon. Baronet
the Home Secretary, that he had stated that the objection taken to the Bill by
the petitions he had presented was, that it would increase the present amount of
Sunday trading.
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  said, he objected to
the Bill, because he believed it to be unnecessary, and directed against a
particular class. If a similar measure were directed against another class he
should think there was some sincerity in the promoters of the Bill. For
instance, if the noble Lord who had charge of the Bill, and whose kindly feeling
and sincerity none could doubt, would only direct his attention to that class
more especially to which he belonged, and correct their errors, rather than
those of the working classes, he thought he would act more advisedly. When he
went into Hyde Park on the Sunday he found numbers of persons, even Members of
that House, advocates of that measure, riding in their carriages with their
servants attending them; and he could not go to the Zoological Gardens but he
saw the same thing. It appeared to him that that which was wrong in the working
classes must surely be wrong in the upper classes, and if he should see the
noble Lord legislating against these things, he thought it would be much better.
With this view he objected to the Bill as an unnecessary piece of legislation.
He believed, firmly and conscientiously, that were the upper classes to set the
working classer a better example, much more effect would be produced than any
such legislation as that which was now proposed.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, that he had
introduced the Bill, not at the instigation of his own class, but in compliance
with the wishes of a number of the inhabitants of this metropolis, principally
of the trading and lower classes, whose petitions, signed by upwards of 50,000
persons, had been presented. Anticipating some such observations as those which
had just been made by the hon. Member for Leicester (Sir J. Walmsley) he had, in
order to see what was the example set by
 1929
 MR. HEYWORTH  said, he thought the
statistics about omnibuses and cabs went to prove that the middle and upper
classes did not observe the Sabbath so well as the lower classes of the
population. It had not been shown that all clubs were closed on Sundays. He
considered the Bill very injurious, and should therefore support the
Amendment.
 MR. BARROW  said, the great evil was,
that labouring men went to the public-house on Saturday night instead of to the
market. If there was no market on Sunday morning, it would be of great advantage
to them, and he believed the payment of wages on Sunday morning was the
exception and not the rule.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, before putting the
question, he must inform the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Buncombe) that it
was not competent for him to move an instruction to the Committee, as the hon.
Member for Newport (Mr. Massey) had a previous Amendment on the paper, which
must first be taken. In case that Amendment should not be adopted, it would be
competent for the hon. Member for Finsbury to move his Amendment, though he
might move it on the bringing up of the Report, or on the third
reading.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, he could not
consent to the insertion of words which would destroy the whole principle of the
Bill. It was his belief that great numbers of the working classes would never
purchase what they wanted on a Saturday evening so long as they knew they could
do so on Sunday morning, and this was a Bill to put an end to Sunday
trading.
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, he would propose to
add at the end of the clause—
 "Provided always that no person of the Jewish race and religion shall in
any case whatever be liable to any of the penalties inflicted under this
Act." 1932
 MR. LLOYD DAVIES  said, he objected to
the Amendment, on the ground that they were legislating for the better
observance of the Christian, and not of the Jewish Sabbath; in other words, that
they were legislating for the whole community, and not for any particular
class.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that it was not in
the Bill which the House of Lords considered sufficiently stringent. If the
Committee wished to make the Bill more obnoxious, they could do so. He should
only call attention to the fact.
 MR. G. BUTT  said, the words proposed to
be introduced excepted something which did not fall within the
Act.
 THE MARQUESS OF BLANDFORD  thought this
clause altogether objectionable, as inviting inferentially the infringement of
existing Acts of Parliament, by excepting many things the sale of which on
Sundays was now prohibited. He recommended that the clause should be left out,
and another clause afterwards brought up, specifically legalising the sale of
those articles clearly necessary to be sold to the
public.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the hon. Member
for Finsbury (Mr. T. Buncombe) was quite right in saying the words he proposed
to insert were in the Lords' Bill, but he believed it happened in this
way— that Bill prohibited work, and therefore excepted works of charity,
but, when the part prohibiting work was struck out, the exception, by an
oversight, was allowed to remain.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he thought it
important that the words proposed should be inserted.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, he made no
objection to the proposition, but thought it was undesirable to incumber the
Bill with unnecessary provisions.
 MR. MONTAGU CHAMBERS  said, he thought
the best way would be to read the clause thus—"That the provisions of the
Bill should not extend nor apply to the selling, offering, or exposing for sale
of any medicines, drugs, or any article for medicinal purposes, or in cases of
emergency or of charity."
 MR. MILES  said, he would suggest that
the addition of the words "charitable or" after the word "article" would meet
the difficulty.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, if the
Committee would pass by the clause and allow him to confer with those who
 1934
 Mr. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he was so
completely at issue with those who drew the Bill that he would not trust
anything to them. He held some of those parties in the highest contempt. It
appeared that there had been some 1,400 l.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  proposed to
strike out the words "hawking or crying."
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he wished to
know whether the Bill would interfere with an Act passed in 1836, whereby bakers
were authorised to bake and sell bread up to half-past one in the afternoon of
Sunday?
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, the Bill
would not interfere with the Act of 1836, although the provisions of that Act
were not exactly as the hon. and gallant Member had described
them.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that, under the
Act of Charles II., milk and cream were allowed to be sold during the whole day,
as also was mackerel.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, mackerel
could be sold till nine o'clock in the morning.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, if the sale of
fish was restricted to nine o'clock, all the fish left unsold at that hour, or
which might arrive later, would be stinking on Monday.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he must make an
appeal to the Committee on behalf of the oyster interest; he hoped
 1935
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he thought it would he
better to retain the words "hawking or crying."
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he wished to
know why nine o'clock was the limit for the sale of milk, and ten o'clock for
newspapers?
 MR. WILKINSON  said, he should move that
all the words after the word "cream" should be left
out."
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that milk now
came up by railway, and in some cases, might not reach London until after nine
o'clock.
 MR. MONTAGU CHAMBERS  said, the object of
the Bill was to relieve the poorer classes from excessive labour, and if milk
was to be allowed to be sold during the whole day, persons would be kept the
whole day to carry it out, and other persons would be sent out to fetch it. He
could not see that the emergencies were so important as to require alteration in
the hour.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he could not see
why milk and cream should not be sold after nine
o'clock.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he would now propose
to extend the hours of sale from nine o'clock until eleven
o'clock.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, the next exception
from the operation of the Bill was in these words— "Nor to the selling,
offering, or exposing for sale any newspaper or other periodical paper before
ten o'clock in the morning."
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he wished to know
whether it was intended to make it illegal for a person who was going by a
railway at half-past ten o'clock to purchase a newspaper, although if the train
started at ten o'clock ho might legally do so?
 1936
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he would beg to point
out the great inconvenience which might result from the clause as now worded.
Supposing a second edition should be published after ten o'clock, announcing
some important news from the East, such, for instance, as the successes of the
allied squadron in the Sea of Azoff, were the public to be debarred from
receiving that intelligence until Monday morning?
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, the effect of the
clause would be to deprive a vast number of persons of the pleasure and
advantage of reading Sunday newspapers altogether, and the clause would in
effect amount to a total prohibition of the sale of newspapers on a
Sunday.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that Sunday was
almost the only leisure day which the working classes had for reading the
newspapers, and he should at the proper time move the omission of the words
"before ten o'clock in the morning."
 MR. SPOONER  said, he had all along
intended to propose the rejection of all that part of the clause which referred
to newspapers, and as there appeared to be a difficulty in doing so now he
should move his Amendment on bringing up the Report. A newspaper was not an
article of "necessity," and he considered that the public could well do without
it on the Sabbath.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, that there
was not a single newspaper actually published on a Sunday. There were two issued
on that day, but they were second editions only.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he thought that
the argument of the noble Lord against the sale of newspapers, if worth
anything, would equally apply to the working of railways and to the employment
of steamboats on a Sunday. But it was clear to him that the observance of the
Sunday was not the primary object of this Bill. Its provisions would still leave
the clubs at the West end untouched. The Bill, in fact, was meant to affect only
those who were not fairly represented in that House.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought it very
undesirable to make the Bill too stringent in its operation. The House must take
care what they were doing, otherwise they would most certainly defeat
themselves.
 MR. HUTCHINS  said, if the suggestion of
the hon. Member for North Warwickshire
 1937
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he assumed that one
object which the promoters of this Bill had in view was to prevent the humbler
classes from resorting to publichouses on a Sunday. Now, it was a well-known
fact that the people went to publichouses chiefly for the purpose of reading the
newspapers. The way, then, to prevent their going to publichouses appeared to
him to be to afford every facility for the sale of
newspapers.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that by the
division just come to it had been decided that the sale of newspapers should be
excepted from the operation of the Bill up to ten o'clock in the morning; he
would now beg to move that the words "in the morning be left out, and the words
in the afternoon" be substituted.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he had a further
Amendment to propose, the effect of which would be to enlarge the time during
which newspapers might be sold. At a time like the present, when people were
going mad after news from the Crimea, he thought it would prove too great a
restriction to prohibit the sale of newspapers all day, after ten in the
morning. He would move, therefore, that it be permitted to sell newspapers also
"after two o'clock in the morning."
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, he must
deprecate any further opposition to the clause, after the unequivocal
demonstration that had just taken place.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he would recommend
the postponement of all further Amendments until the bringing up o the
Report.
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he wished, before
acceding to the Motion, to know what was the particular signification to be
attached to the words "other cause." He viewed with the greatest apprehension
any alteration that might have the effect of diminishing the importance of the
office now so satisfactorily filled.
 MR. WALPOLE , in explanation, said, it
might refer to absence caused by the death of a near relative, as was the case
with Mr. Manners Sutton while occupying the Chair, who lost his father during
that time.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he would beg to move
that a Select Committee be appointed to consider and Report to the House whether
any and what improvement might be made in the providing for the execution of the
office of Speaker, in the event of the Speaker's unavoidable absence by reason
of illness or other cause.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he was anxious, at that early stage of the proceedings, to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government with reference to a subject on which much misapprehension had existed in the public mind. The question he wished to put was, if the Bill passed into law, was it the intention of the Government to distribute, as heretofore, the Privy Council grants among Roman Catholics, Episcopalians, and Presbyterians?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, if the Bill came into effect, he apprehended that it would make provision for certain schools by rates. There were also certain schools, Episcopalian and Roman Catholic, for which no provison was made in the Bill. Their object was to diffuse education, and there was not the slightest intention to
 1949
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he thought, in common consistency, the same assistance should be afforded to the Wesleyans and all other denominations who would be excluded from the benefis of this Bill by the clause which required that the Assembly's Shorter Catechism should be used in the schools, as was to be extended to the two sects named by the noble Lord. He also wished to know if this rule would extend not only to the two bodies mentioned by the noble Lord, but to all classes of Christians, or even without any profession of Christianity, under the secular system?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he thought he could satisfy the hon. Member that he would have no cause of complaint. It was proposed to deal with the Episcopalians and Catholics as exceptional cases; for, as he believed, in many instances they would not be able to take advantage of the present system. No denominational body would be excluded from any participation in the grant.
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, he would suggest that the consideration of the Preamble should be taken at once.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he had no objection to the Preamble being at once proceeded with.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he should now beg to beg to introduce the Amendment of which he had given notice. He objected to taxing persons for a system of education of which they might disapprove from conscientious scruples, and he should take the sense of the Committee on that vital point.
 MR. HEYWORTH  said, he should willingly second the Amendment, for he considered that it was contrary to the principles of justice to tax the whole community for the benefit of any one class.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he believed the hon. Gentleman misunderstood the clause, in supposing that it would exclude Wesleyans; but whether or not, the Government would not, he presumed, exclude the schools of any denomination which might not come within the benefits of the Bill from assistance from the grants of the Committee of Privy Council.
 MR. E. BALL  said, he should give his most decided opposition to the Amendment. Its effect would be to abolish religious teaching in the schools throughout the country; and, in his opinion, the time had come when they were bound to do everything in their power to promote the spread of religious education among the community.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he did not concur with those who thought that taxes should be levied for the purposes of religious education; and, therefore, though he believed the opinion of the hon. Member was shared by a large number of persons, he felt bound to oppose the Amendment.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he thought that the denominations for whose benefit this Bill was introduced ought not to be allowed to tax the whole community for their own benefit. It was, in fact, coming before the House in  forma pauperis
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, he hoped the Amendment would be withdrawn, but, at the same time, he must express his concurrence with the view taken by the hon. Member for Southwark (Mr. A. Pellatt) in reference to the inconsistency of the Free Church party. His wishing that the Preamble be taken first was that he was
 1951
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  said, that the hon. Member must have been deeply ignorant of the feeling of the people of Scotland if he supposed that they would take exception to the statement in the Preamble of the Bill in reference to scriptural education.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he wished to say a few words on behalf of the Roman Catholics of Scotland. The Roman Catholics of the country generally were as much in favour of education as any other denomination; but they objected to being taxed for the advantage of other denominations while they themselves derived no benefit from such taxation. There were 250,000 Irish Roman Catholics in Scotland, and of these 100,000 were resident in Glasgow. These had a claim to education from the State as well as the rest of the community; and if provision for that purpose was not made in the Bill, they had a right to that assistance from the grants of the Committee of Privy Council, which the noble Lord now admitted they had. That admission on the part of the noble Lord perfectly satisfied him, and he should, therefore, offer no opposition to the Bill.
 MR. HADFIELD , in reply, said, he was as much the friend of religious education as any one; but he would not come to the State or tax others for the purpose of extending his religion. The right hon. and learned Lord Advocate might now return to his country and tell the pitiful tale that by bribing the Roman Catholic Members, the Government had succeeded in passing the Bill and taxing Dissenters for the religious education of Presbyterians.
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, that the Preamble was all they could cling to for the religious principle, and he intended to move certain words to give that principle more effect.
 MR. DE VERE  said, that after the explanation given by the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston), which removed the ambiguity previously existing as to the intentions of Government in reference to the Roman Catholic schools in Scotland, he should give his support to the measure.
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, he would now move to introduce words declaring that the Christian religion should be taught in the schools as the only sound basis of education, and as consonant with the belief of the great majority of the people of this country.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he considered that the religious principle was sufficiently clear in the Preamble as it stood.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, he begged to move that in the paragraph declaring that the superintendence of the schools should be "altered and amended" that the word "altered" should be omitted, and the word "extended" substituted for it. He thought that as the management was admitted to be successful, no imputation of deficiency ought to be cast upon the parochial system of education in Scotland.
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he would suggest that the consideration of the interpretation clause should be taken next.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he thought it more advisable to proceed in the usual order. It was clear that if they discussed all these terms they would make no progress, and it would be impossible to decide the interpretation of terms until they knew the provisions of the Bill.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he should support the suggestion, and would point out the case of the Poor Law Bill as an example in which the same course had been taken.
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he would not press his suggestion to a division.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he had an Amendment to propose for the creation of a Board which he felt assured would fully represent the different shades of religious opinion in Scotland on the subject of education.
 MR. W. LOCKHART  said, he wished to move that after the word "Ayr," in the proposed Amendment, the words "two additional persons elected by the Commissioners of Supply for the counties of Lanark and Ross," should be inserted. His reason for seeking to include the county of Lanark was that it contained one-fifth of the population of the whole of Scotland.
 MR. STIRLING  said, he would propose to substitute in the Amendment of his hon. Friend who had just spoken, the word "Perth" for "Ross."
 MR. W. LOCKHART  said, he would agree to the proposal.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he would now propose to add words to the clause, to the effect that the Chairman of the Board should be paid a salary not exceeding 600 l.
 MR. STIRLING  said, that he was desirous that the parochial schoolmasters should in some way have a representative at the General Board.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he should move that the clause be omitted. He considered that the Chairman and Secretary of the Board would engross all the management, whilst the other members would be merely cushions to save them from all responsibility. He should therefore propose to leave out the clause, and he would bring up another to the following effect:—"That it shall be lawful for Her Majesty to recommend to the Committee of Education of the Privy Council, from time to time, to appoint a person to be Inspector General of Education in Scotland, to carry out the purposes of this Act, under the direction of the Committee of Education of the Privy Council, and that there shall be paid to such Inspector General a salary not exceeding," a sum to be afterwards fixed upon in Committee.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that this question was one he had before considered. There might, no doubt, be considerable convenience in having under one responsible head the system of education in Scotland. There were, however, two objections to the adoption of such a course—the first objection had reference to the circumstance that the appointment of an Inspector General in London would be to encourage a system of centralisation to which the people of Scotland were opposed; the other objection was based on the fact, that the people of Scotland would never be satisfied with a superintendence of their schools which might be placed in the hands
 1955
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that at such an hour (ten minutes to four) it would be useless to oppose this Motion, as there would be scarcely time to divide. He should, however, fix the Bill for the next evening, when he hoped that he should not again be met by the tactics which the opponents of the measure had employed to delay its progress on the present occasion.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he trusted that the right hon. and learned Lord would reconsider his determination to bring on a Bill of this importance, after the twenty or thirty notices on the paper for to-morrow.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that he should let the Bill stand as an Order for that evening, and he should proceed with it, if the other notices were got through with in sufficient time to enable him to do so.
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, he must protest against the imputation of the right hon. and learned Lord, that the hon. Members who opposed the Bill were resorting to unfair tactics in their opposition to it. Since the people of Scotland had had an opportunity of considering the Bill, their opinions had greatly changed with respect to it; and he asserted that although he had not such a high opinion of the Bill as the right hon. and learned Lord had himself, he wished to see it fully discussed and made as perfect as possible. When hon. Members were carrying out what they deemed their duty, they ought not to be met with such a discourteous comment on their conduct.
 MR. IRTON  said, he hoped that if this Bill were placed on the Orders for to-morrow, hon. Members would come and oppose its progress, at whatever time it might come on.
 MR. E. ELLICE  said, that he thought it must have been evident to all that, when the hon. Member (Mr. F. Scott) last addressed the Committee, he was speaking against time, and therefore he (Mr. Ellice) thought the observation as to the "tactics" of the opposing party was fully and amply justified.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, that the hon. Member's remark was entirely misapplied. He (Mr. Scott) did not wish to delay the Bill, but felt bound to take every means in his power to insure its passing in as perfect a form as possible.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that the Bill of the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Hadfield) proposed to extend the existing law with reference to the relation between masters and workmen in certain trades to persons engaged in the iron manufacture, and he understood that considerable objection was entertained to the measure, especially in Birmingham. A Bill, comprising between 300 and 400 clauses, for consolidating the whole law relating to masters and workmen had been drawn, and might be seen by hon. Members in the library; but although that Bill had been under the consideration of the Lord Chancellor, and would, he believed, be laid upon the table of the other House, he could not hold out any hope of its being passed during the present Session. The object of that Bill was simply to consolidate the law, without applying it to any trades beyond those which it now affected. When that measure was brought forward the hon. Gentleman could, if he chose, propose that its provisions should apply to the particular trades to which this Bill referred.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that the colonial Legislature would hare the power of rescinding the clause, but that they would be bound to have the sanction of the Crown to any such alteration.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he must decline to follow the example of the mover and seconder of the Amendment, and to enter into questions respecting endowment and the voluntary principle in matters of religion. He conceived that they were not called upon to decide those questions; but, the colony of Victoria having decided that they would appropriate 50,000 l. 1985 1986 1987 1988
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said that he only wished to address a few words to the House with regard to the form in which the measure was introduced. It was evident that when, in accordance with the Act of 1850, Bills arrived in this country from the different Australian colonies, proposing new forms of constitutions, there would be very great inconvenience in sending back those Bills to the colonial Legislatures, in order that they should again undertake the labour of going through their provisions, and that many questions which excited great interest in the Colonies should be again subjected to discussion. That was the view which was taken by Her Majesty's Government at the end of last Session, when the measures which the House had that evening to consider had been first brought forward. But if the course to which he referred had been objectionable at that time, it would be far more objectionable at present, after the lapse of so many months, to send back those Bills to the colonies with a view to their reconsideration. In the discussion which had already taken place, it had been suggested that another course might be taken, which was to enact  de novo l. 1957 l.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he would beg to refer to the numerous meetings which had been held at Melbourne, Geelong, and ether places, at which resolutions
 1989
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had expressed his surprise at the objections which had been raised by the hon. Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe), as involving a principle of interference with self-government but he (Mr. Adderley) understood the hon. Member for Kidderminster to object to the measure because it was a Bill of the colonial Legislature which they had no right to pass. The hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies had omitted to distinguish between the two portions of the Bill presented to the House—that which was within the power of the colonial Legislature, of which power he had no wish to deprive them, and that with which they had no power to deal. He agreed that the colonial Legislature had power to deal with certain subjects, but he protested against the additional power which they had assumed, they not being fit persons to deal with the subject; and when the hon. Member for Carlow (Mr. J. Ball) quoted the case of Canada, he quoted a case which was not parallel to the present, because in that case there was a distinct contract between Canada and the mother country; and though it was necessary for the Bill to pass through Parliament in order to place the Act with the Imperial Statutes, the main proposition came from Canada, and the subject was one which they had a recognised right to legislate upon there. The history of the present measure was simply this:—The Colonies of Australia up to this year 1842 were Under the government of a Governor and Council. That Government was allowed by the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) himself to be less free than British colonies had a right to have; therefore, in that year a Bill was passed giving to one of those colonies—New South Wales—a somewhat more representative form of Government. Remonstrances were made immediately, which increased year after year until 1850, when a Bill was passed extending the same form of Government—namely, two-thirds representative and one-third nominative, with a single Chamber—to the three other colonies of Australia, so that the four colonies were placed under the same mongrel form of Legislature. But in that Act there was a material clause, upon which hinged the whole of the present discussion. That clause gave to the Legislative Councils of those colonies powers to alter their own constitution, those powers, however, being specific
 1974 "You have given us the same form of Government against which we have already protested, and have extended it to all the other colonies, giving us merely the power of altering the qualification and determining whether we should have one Chamber or two. We demanded a great deal more than that, and this Act leaves our grievances unredressed in the most material particulars." 1975 1976 1977 ultra vives l. l. cui bono? l. 1978
 MR. MIALL , in seconding the Amendment, said, he must express his surprise that the subject of religious endowments should be again brought forward in that House, after all the experience they had had of the heartburnings and strife which it excited in the Colonies. No doubt, the acts of those who had been intrusted with the powers of self-government were deserving of every respect; but it should be remembered that the Legislative Council, by which the previous vote of 6,000 l. l. l. 1959
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that under these circumstances, as the late period of the
 2013
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he had been informed that it was the intention of the Government to introduce a general measure for regulating the law affecting masters and workmen, and, if that were the case, he would wish to withdraw the Bill.
 MR. BELL  said, that, understanding from Mr. Speaker that the House would have the power of dealing with the details of the Bill, and especially the schedule, in Committee, he should withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. BELL  said, he rose to move that the Bill should be read a second time that day six months. He believed that the measure was opposed to the wishes of a majority of the colonists, and he found that upwards of 13,000 of their number had signed a memorial against it. His own objections to it might have been removed by certain alterations in its clauses and in its schedules, but the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies had refused to make those alterations, and he, therefore, felt constrained to oppose its further progress. A clause in this Bill proposed that a sum of 50,000 l. 1958
 MR. J. BALL  said, that after the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had last addressed
 1970 Vic. 1971 1972 l.
 MR. J. BALL  said, whatever complaints might be made of the tyranny of the Colonial Office, he trusted that the time would never come when the colonies would have just cause to complain of the tyranny of the House of Commons. It was a great
 2007 2008 2009 2010
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that if he had the same feeling on the subject as the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, he should not venture to address the House in reference to the Bill under consideration. The hon. Gentleman, as a Minister of the Crown, said it was a matter of comparative indifference to him how the Upper Chamber was constituted, but he was afraid that Parliament might offend the colonies by sending back these Bills. Now, the hon. Gentleman ought to have recollected that another Bill had been sent back—the South Australian Bill—because it was repugnant to the feelings of the colonists, and had been obtained by gross corruption and something amounting to systematic fraud. He would undertake to make out clearly to the House that the proposed nominee Upper Chamber was not only directly opposed to the wishes of the people of New South Wales, but was also in antagonism to the feelings of the inhabitants
 2011 2012
 MR. LOWE  said, that almost all the objections which he had taken to the Bill that the House had just disposed of, applied with equal force to the measure now before them; but as the House had not thought them sufficient to arrest the second reading of the former Bill, he would not now trouble them by repeating or even alluding to those objections. Therefore, merely noticing that the New South Wales Bill was exactly in the same form, and came before them under pretty much the same circumstances, as far as time was concerned, as the measure which had just passed its second reading, he would at once state his reasons why he considered that they ought not to proceed further with the present Bill. Those reasons were not of a merely formal nature—for, if valid, they touched the very substance of the measure; and the position he would endeavour to establish was, that the Legislative Council of New South Wales had passed a Bill which did not represent the colonists personally, that it had not really acted for the interests of the colony, but for certain other interests; and that the constitution which had been sent home for that House to enact was not
 1990 coup d'état 1991 minimum 1992 ex post facto "Long before the period of fourteen, or even eight years expires, the squatters will be all-powerful in the Legislature, and most of the influential residents within the boundaries will have, as friends, as relations, or creditors, the strongest motives to assist them in asserting their claims. The benefit of restoring these lands to the public will be regarded with all the coldness of political apathy. The injury of depriving the squatter of his run will be felt by himself, by his connections, and by his class, with all the keenness of private and personal interest. In this unequal contest the Home Government is far more likely to side with the squatters than with the colonist. It will regard them as the germ of a loyalist party—as a party which, like the Cromwellian settlers in Ireland, will hold its lands by the tenure of union, and see in a separation from the mother country not so much the severing of political ties as the resumption of its unjust territorial acquisitions. How soon they will deem it politic to throw off the mask, and declare their runs to be what they even now consider them—their own—it is impossible to predict." 1993 1994 "The electoral scheme now proposed by the Government for the two colonies was of the same unequal character as that which it was to supersede. To the city of Sydney, for example, with nearly one-fourth of the population of the colony, and perhaps a still larger share of property and intelligence, was to be allowed three representatives out of the thirty-two elective members, while representation was given to remote districts four or five times greater as compared with the ratio of population. This question formed the chief point in a long preliminary discussion, in which the Government views were advocated by about two-thirds of the Council, a more equal electoral distribution being contended for by the remainder. Some sharp party scintillations were evolved in the debate. The Liberals were charged with a disloyal Republicanism, and the squatters jocularly complimented on the convenient character of their new voters, who in the absence of human beings were supposed to be the sheep and cattle of their pastoral domains. The inequalities of the British constitution formed the fundamental argument of the majority, and the short representation of London was pleaded for that of Sydney. To give greater conclusiveness to this argument the Reform Act of 1832 was urged to have been a finality in regard to electoral change. Strange to say, this view of the case, so opposed to all British political experience, was doggedly maintained, refuted, and reasserted by long quotations and speeches; and it is still more remarkable that, at the very time when the representatives of the Crown were carrying their point in New South Wales by such an argument, the First Minister himself, as it afterwards appeared, was engaged at head-quarters in devising a further and comprehensive reform, which, it may be said, only an accident had then frustrated, and which, every one feels, will not be much longer deferred." 1995 "That in order, however, that Your Majesty's confidential advisers may have no excuse for the continuance of these abuses, we unhesitatingly declare that we are prepared, upon the surrender to the Colonial Legislature of the entire management of all our revenues, territorial as well as general, in which we include mines of every description, and upon the establishment of a constitution among us similar in its outline to that of Canada, to assume and provide for the whole cost of our internal Government, &c." 1996 "You inform me that a Committee of the Council is engaged in the preparation of a scheme for the amendment of its constitution. As such a measure is impending, it is only necessary for me now to inform you that, as soon as it has passed the Legislature of the province, and received the approval of Her Majesty, the disposition of the waste lands, and the appropriation of the fund arising out of their sale and management, will be placed without reserve, under the supervision and control of the Legislative authority in the colony. This policy would, of course, be inoperative without legislation in-this country; and it will be necessary to invite Parliament to empower Her Majesty to make the proposed transfer of the functions at present vested in the Crown. I am ignorant of the shape which the project under the consideration of the Committee of the Council may eventually assume. The Legislative Council, indeed, in the petition before adverted to, favoured a constitution similar in its outline to that of Canada. It would be premature for me, without materials for forming a judgment, te pass an opinion Upon the policy of totally reconstructing the frame of government recently established; but I may state that I have always thought it probable that the experience and wisdom of the Council would dictate better provisions than those which were in the first instance adopted by Parliament for securing good government in New South Wales, and promoting harmony in the connexion subsisting between Great Britain and this important province of the empire." 1997 "Are we bound by the terms of the remonstrance and petition of 1851, to construct a Legislature composed of a nominated Upper House, and of an elective Legislative Assembly, similar to the Legislature of Canada?" "As regards the constitution of the Legislative Council, your Committee consider that, not only by the terms of their declaration and remonstrance
 1998 "They conceive that an Upper House, framed on this principle—the creation of hereditary titles—while it would be free from the objections which have been urged against the House of Lords, on the ground of the hereditary right of legislation which they exercise, would lay the foundation of an aristocracy, which, from their fortune, birth, leisure, and the superior education these advantages would superinduce, would soon supply elements for the formation of an Upper House, modelled, as far as circumstances will admit, upon the analogies of the British Constitution." "Such a House would be a close imitation of she elective portion of the House of Lords, which is supplied from the Irish and Scotch peerage; nor is it the least of the advantages which would arise from the creation of a titled order, that it would necessarily form one of the strongest inducements not only to respectable families to remain in this colony, but to the upper classes of the United Kingdom and other countries, who are desirous to emigrate, to choose it for their future abode." "Et genus et proavos, et quæ non fecimus ipsi, "Vix ea nostra voco—" 1999 "Acting on these principles, your Committee have inserted in the civil list to be granted to Her Majesty an adequate fund for pensioning off, at their present rates of salary, all the higher functionaries of the Government who may be displaced by the new order of things likely to arise when responsible Government takes effect among us." l. l. l. l. l. 2000 "That the Bill was passed in opposition to the wishes of a large majority of the colonists, who desire, as the basis of local government, a representative system, and a just distribution of the electoral power." 2001 "I say 'unnecessarily;' for, whatever the opinion of the Members of a new Council might be upon the subject of the form of government to be established henceforward in this colony, it could not, at this late period, be made to operate in
 2002 2003 l. l. 2004 2005
 MR. LOWE  said, he was reminded, by the small number of Members in the House, of the wisdom of the rule by which they ought to be guided in dealing with all questions referring to the Colonies—namely, that they should abstain from legislating here upon any matter upon which the Colonies themselves were competent to legislate. The converse of that rule was also true, for not only should the Imperial Government refrain from legislating upon subjects within the jurisdiction of colonial Assemblies, but colonial Governments should also refrain from legislating upon subjects within the jurisdiction of the Imperial Government. He was sorry to say that the Bill before the House violated both those rules, on the one hand requiring them to legislate upon a vast number of subjects entirely within the cognisance of a colonial Legislature, and on the other hand allowing a colonial Legislature to lay down the law to them upon subjects of Imperial importance. A measure more vicious in principle, one that more entirely violated every rule which experience and wisdom had laid down for the regulation of the relations between the mother country and the Colonies could not have been devised. The principle upon which that House ought to act was this:— Let a line be clearly drawn between the powers of the colonial Legislatures and those of the Imperial Parliament, and let ample local powers be given to the colonial Legislatures; but that line having been drawn, let them not encroach
 1960 1961 "An Act to establish a Constitution in and for the Colony of Victoria; and whereas the said Bill was presented for Her Majesty's assent to the then Lieutenant Governor of Victoria; and the said Lieutenant Governor did thereupon declare that he reserved the said Bill for the signification of Her Majesty's pleasure thereon; and whereas it is by the said reserved Bill provided that the provisions thereof shall have no force or effect until so much and such parts of certain Acts of Parliament in the said Bill specified as severally relate to the said colony, and are repugnant to the said reserved Bill, shall have been repealed, and the entire management and control of the waste lands belonging to the Crown in the said colony, and of the proceeds thereof, including all royalties, mines, and minerals, shall be vested in the Legislature of the said colony." "And whereas it is not competent to Her Majesty to assent to the said reserved Bill without the authority of Parliament for that purpose; and whereas it is expedient that Her Majesty should be authorised to assent to the said reserved Bill." 1962 l. l. 1963 1964 1965 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1966 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1967 l. 1968 "I am bound to state that the schedules appended are universally condemned as extravagant n the extreme, and as suggested in a state of intoxication induced by excited feelings of the time and accepted by the representative members as a compromise; in fact, as the best bargain they could make with the Government party, and under the assurance of Mr. Foster, the Colonial Secretary, who spoke the sentiments of the Duke of Newcastle—[that he (Mr. Lowe) begged to doubt, as it did not agree with the Duke's despatches]—that the Home Government would not accept the Bill without the schedules, that without them it would be sure to be sent back." 1969
 MR. BAXTER  said, he willingly seconded the Amendment, being fully impressed with the impolicy of passing the Bill in its present shape. He regretted that so few Members of the House could be found to pay attention to the affairs of those vast possessions which were making such wonderful progress. The House should remember they were legislating for countries which one day would become the England of the Pacific, and any improper legislation might produce mischief which
 2006 l.
 MR. GAVAN DUFFY  said, that when the hon. Member for Kidderminster announced his intention to move the postponement of the second reading of the New South Wales Government Bill, he (Mr. Duffy) stated that he would cordially vote in favour of that proposition; but the Bill now before the House was one which had the hearty support of the colonists; it was a wise and liberal measure, and one to which the House could give its assent with a clear conscience. There were, doubtless, some points in the Bill to which objections might be taken, but he thought those points could be most properly dealt with in Committee. There was one provision relating to the qualification of Members of the two Houses, which was open to very serious objection. The qualification for Members of the Upper House was 5,000 l. l. l. 1983 l. 1984
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had heard nothing, either from the hon. Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe) or from his hon. Friend who had last addressed the House, and who, though he spoke against the Bill, intended, it appeared, to
 1979 1980 l. l. l. l. 1981 1982
 CAPTAIN LEICESTER VERNON , referring to the statement of the Clerk of the Ordnance (Mr. Monsell) in reply to a question put on Monday, the 11th inst., that "cadets at Sandhurst would of course be able to compete on the 8th of July for commissions in the Royal Artillery and Royal Engineers," wished to ask the Under-Secretary for War whether any cadets so competing, in the event of failure, would be deprived of their prospect of obtaining commissions in the line, from Sandhurst, in due course?
 COLONEL DUNNE  wished to put the following question to the Clerk of the Ordnance, whether he would (before the next reading of the Ordnance Board Bill) lay on the table of the House a statement
 2033
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I rise to order. You have heard the language which has fallen from the hon. Member. He has stated, that nothing stated or stipulated by my fight hon. Friend or by myself with references to the terms of peace could have had any object but that of being favourable to our enemy. I put it to you, Sir, whether that language is such as falls within the rules of discussion in this House?
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I should not have risen to claim your protection against the language used by the hon. Member—language which I do not think he has abandoned, as he might have done—had I not felt justified in so doing. I agree, however, with what has fallen from the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli), and do not think that the slightest blame is to be attributed to the hon. Member for making this inquiry. I feel a good deal embarrassed both by the question and the subject it has reference to; for it appears to me, in a question of this kind, one of two courses ought to be pursued. The Commons ought either to know nothing or everything. For my part, as far as my personal and strong inclinations and earnest desire go, I wish that my noble Friend at the head of the Government, if he felt it consistent with his public duty, after having
 2040
 COLONEL FREESTUN  said, he wished to refer to some remarks made by the hon. Member of a personal character with respect to a letter he (Colonel Freestun) had addressed to a public journal with regard to his not having been present at the meeting of the Administrative Reform Association on Wednesday. He was surprised that the hon. Member for Aylesbury should have presumed—should have dared to question his veracity. ["Order!"] He asked the hon. Member if either the Members for Plymouth, Maldon, Gloucester, Brecon, or Leeds were present at that meeting? He repeated the statement in his letter that they were not. He rose merely with that object, and he was perfectly content to leave gentlemen of greater ability to deal with the general subject now before the House.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he was extremely surprised to hear what had fallen from the hon. and gallant Member. He did not say those Gentlemen were present—he merely remarked on the words of the hon. and gallant Member in the letter "with such truth," with a (?) after it, "by the hon. Member for Aylesbury." The hon. Member now charged him with being guilty of that of which he was himself accused.
 COLONEL FREESTUN  was about to proceed, but resumed his seat on loud cries of "Order!"
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he was anxious to say a few words on the latter part of the subject which had been referred to by the hon. Member for Aylesbury, to which he had paid considerable attention, namely, the state of the civil service. He agreed with many of the observations of the hon. Member for Aylesbury; but he thought the hon. Gentleman had not pointed out anything which was deserving of the name of a remedy for the evils to which he had directed the attention of the House. He (Sir S. Northcote) was anxious to explain, so far as he was able to do, the nature of the remedy which he believed might be applied to the existing state of things. Having been for some years a member of the civil service in a subordinate position, and having heard it continually made the subject of a great deal of abuse—sometimes of unfair abuse—he was
 2080 2081 2082 2083 l. l. l. 2084 l. l. l. l. 2085 employés morale 2086 employés l. l. l. 2087 2088 bonâ fide 2089 2090 morale 2091 l. l. l. 2092 l.
 MR. LEVESON GOWER  said, that he must ask the indulgence of the House while he explained in a few words the motive of the vote he was about to give on this question. If the object of the Motion before the House was to secure that all public employment should be given on the score of merit alone, he, for one, entirely concurred in that principle, and had endeavoured during the whole course of his political life to promote it to the best of his ability. And if the Administrative Reform Association pointed out any way of securing that end, he would be willing to give it his support; but what he complained of was, that the members of that association, assuming to represent the commercial classes, and holding themselves out as practical men, had not as yet laid down any practical plan to attain the objects they had in view. In his opinion, it was incumbent upon an association so formed, not only to clearly define the object which it had in view, but at the same time to point out the means by which that object might be attained.
 2093 2094
 MR. PEACOCKE  stated that he should support the Amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for Hertfordshire, because it was directed against those influences which
 2095 2096 2097 2098
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, upon the present occasion I find myself in the difficulty which I have recently experienced more than once, that while there is an original Motion—and virtually, I presume I may say, an Amendment on that Motion before the House—I am not in a position to give my assent either to the one or to the other; and I will state to the House the reasons why it appears to me that the adoption of either of them would be undesirable. Whether either of them will be adopted it is not for me to say, but if either of them is adopted it will not be the first time during the present Session in which the House has done itself less than justice, considering the state of the country, by clothing its intentions in language of a very ambiguous character, difficult for the country to understand, and not likely to promote the public welfare. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Aylesbury commences his Motion by saying, "That this House views with deep and increasing concern the state of the nation." Now, whatever may be the intention of the hon. Gentleman, I, as a Member of Parliament, am bound strictly to canvass the language which he proposes to put into the mouth of the House of Commons; and, acting on that principle, I am not prepared to say that I view with deep and increasing concern the state of the nation—for it appears to me, on the contrary, that the people of this country, when in circumstances of great difficulty, and at a time when inflammatory and exciting matter is constantly being addressed to them, have shown an admirable self-command, and have maintained an attitude and a position during the present year altogether worthy of the nation. Well, the hon. Gentleman goes on to say that, owing to the prevalence of party and family influence and a blind adherence to routine, great evils have already affected the public service, and still greater disasters are to be anticipated. I am not quite sure what is meant in the Motion of the hon. Member by the term "family influence," but of course I must interpret his Motion with reference, I will not say merely to the speech which he has made in this House, but to speeches which he has addressed to other audiences, and with
 2099 2100 2101 2102 2103 2104 2105 2106 2107 2108 2109 l. l. 2110 2111 2112 2113 2114
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said,
 2128
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I rejoice that the hon. Member for Aylesbury has, by a distinct and substantive Motion, brought the question of administrative reform under the specific consideration and review of the House. The question of administrative reform, as the hon. Baronet who has just addressed the House has justly remarked, has assumed dimensions of great importance and has justly occupied a large portion of public attention. It is an easy and convenient practice, for an association of gentlemen who agree together in opinion upon some important subject, to collect a public meeting to which the audience are admitted by ticket, and in which means are taken to insure unanimity in the persons addressing the meeting as well as in the audience collected to hear the speakers. But when a question of this sort is brought under the consideration of Parliament, it necessarily undergoes examination by persons of different sentiments. The House of Commons represents all classes and the opinions and sentiments of the entire community, and it is certain that no important question of this sort which may be brought under the consideration of Parliament can escape a close and searching investigation. The Motion which the hon. Member for Aylesbury has brought forward, embodies the subject of administrative reform; but it is, at the same time, a vote of want of confidence in Her Majesty's Government. In one respect, I think, the remarks of my right hon. Friend (Mr. Gladstone) on this Motion were not wholly borne out by the character of the Motion, which he described as a mere abstract resolution that could lead to no practical result. Now, if this Resolution should be adopted by a majority of this House, it would have at least this practical result, that it would lead to the resignation of the present Government. That, Sir, is, at all events, a practical result, and it justifies the hon. Member for Aylesbury in submitting the Resolution to
 2129 2130 2131 2132 2133
 MR. LOCKHART  had never known a Bill pressed through with such haste. It was impossible the people of Scotland could know anything of its provisions.
 MR. F. SCOTT  agreed with the hon. Member. The Bill was hurried through to its present stage, and he hoped the hon. and learned Lord would withdraw it.
 MR. F. SCOTT  thought the suitor would be placed at a disadvantage by the Bill. The Faculty of Writers to the Signet were unanimously opposed to it.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : No, I shall not give any distinct answer to that question. A despatch on the subject has been written to the Governor of Gibraltar, which I propose to lay on the table.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he could answer the question so far as it regarded Canada. The Governor-General of Canada had received a despatch from his right hon. Friend (Sir G. Grey), and that despatch had been laid before the Colonial Legislature; but no proposal on the subject had yet been made in the Colonial Parliament, which had adjourned before the matter could be discussed.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he had had time since he last addressed the House on the subject to examine the ordinance passed by Sir Robert Gardiner in reference to unlicensed printing. In the first place it was entirely competent for the Governor of Gibraltar to pass such an ordinance without consulting the home authorities in, all cases where he might consider the safety of the garrison demanded it; but there were certain restrictions placed upon his general powers of issuing ordinances; he, however, had full power to issue any ordinance he might consider necessary for the safety of the garrison, and it rested entirely with him to say when that safety was endangered. Such was the power the Governor of Gibraltar possessed, and that power he thought it would be most unwise to abolish or to restrict. If that were to happen again which had happened in former times, viz., that the fortress of Gibraltar—and it was nothing more than a fortress—should be besieged, great danger might result from a person being permitted to print a newspaper containing information as to the state of the garrison, its weak points of defence, the quantity of ammunition in the garrison, the number of guns fit for service, and the position of the powder magazine; and the Governor would not merely be justified, but it would be his duty, to stop the publication of such a newspaper. But with regard to the discretion exercised by the Governor of Gibraltar in the present instance, he owned that it did not appear to him that there was any urgent necessity for issuing so peremptory an ordinance without going through the usual form. In 1841, when he (Lord John Russell) was Secretary for the Colonies, and the question was brought before him whether the Governor should permit a newspaper to be printed, he advised him not to prevent the publication of newspapers in the Garrison, and not td issue any ordinance on the subject. In reference to the opinion of the Duke of Newcastle, to which the hon. Member had referred, it appeared that his opinion was asked as to whether a second newspaper might be allowed, and he said that he saw no objection provided it was under proper control; but what the meaning of the term "proper control" was, and what the nature and extent of the restraint which should be placed upon the press should be
 2036
 LORD NAAS  inquired whether the Governor-General of Canada had been requested by the Government to make an application to the Colonial Legislature for a grant of one million of acres of land, to enable Her Majesty to offer settlements to such of Her Majesty's foreign legionaries as might be willing to settle in Canada; and, if so, whether it was the intention of the Government to offer similar settlements to the officers and soldiers of Her Majesty's regular army?
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  said, his constituents were opposed to the Bill also.
 MR. DISRAELI : It is, no doubt, of the utmost importance that there should be a complete understanding between the members of a Government; and this House has no right to ask for more than a general exposition of the main principles on which a Government is formed. It has no right to inquire into all the conditions which may have taken place between the several Members of the Government. But when in a debate of the magnitude of that which has lately taken place, the Members of the Government specifically referred to a particular stipulation and condition made to and assented to by the noble Lord who remains at the head of the Government, Her Majesty's Ministers must not be surprised at such a question as that asked by the hon. Member. The course which has been pursued is perfectly legitimate, Parliamentary and constitutional, and I do not think any Gentleman is open to censure for making such inquiries as have been made by the hon. Member. It was an inquiry which those who are Ministers, or who have been Ministers, must have expected would be made after the specific allusion made by them to these stipulations. I should not have risen, but I thought the tone of the noble Lord's reply implied that the inquiry was improper; but, as I have said, after what has taken place, he must have expected that such an inquiry would be made.
 MR. COWAN  bore testimony to the repugnance with which the Bill was regarded by a considerable part of the legal profession in Scotland. He hoped the hon. and learned Lord would endeavour to make the Bill more conformable to the feelings of that profession, or, if that were impossible, that he would withdraw it.
 MR. COWAN  thought the people of Scotland deserved a little more consideration than could be given to their interests at that hour of the morning.
 MR. SPEAKER : It is not Within the
 2037
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, the Bill would be all very well if the Court of Session were constituted like the English Court of Chancery. The object would have been attained by a joint court of appeal, but it was not wise to place it in the power of the Clerk of Session to partition the business. It would be better to postpone the Bill until next Session.
 MR. CRAUFURD  hoped the hon. and learned Lord would withdraw the Bill.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  did not at all wish to take the opinion of the House on the Bill then, as he wished to take the sense of the people of Scotland still further on its provisions. He did not deny that the Bill had elicited a considerable difference of opinion. One part of the legal profession was against it; the other, the Faculty of Advocates, was for it. The object of the Bill was to remedy the evils arising out of the absolute right of choice given to suitors in the courts in Scotland seventeen years ago. The inconvenience created by their exercising this right was so great that, while one division of the courts was overtaxed with work, the other division was quite unemployed. In fact the delay almost amounted to a denial of justice, and demanded a remedy at the hands of the Legislature. He did not say he was bound to press the Bill this Session, but he thought it was a subject which required a remedy as soon as possible. He therefore hoped that the House would let him take the Bill on the Monday week.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  had no intention
 2134
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  stated that he should postpone the third reading of this Bill to Monday week, in order to give more time for the people of Scotland to express their sentiments upon it.
 MR. BRIGHT  complained that the noble Lord had not answered his question. What he wanted to know was whether the noble Lord Would cancel the ordinance, and if he would give a distinct answer to that question he (Mr. Bright) would be satisfied.
 MR. BRIGHT  after referring to the Ordinance of the 4th May issued by Sir Robert Gardiner, the Governor General of Gibraltar, prohibiting unlicensed printing, and reading an extract, declaring that it had been the custom not to permit printing in the Garrison without the consent of the authorities, and prohibiting the printing of any matter or thing not previously submitted and sanctioned by the civil secretary of the Garrison, under a penalty of not less than five nor more than a hundred dollars, and imprisonment for three months for non-payment—said that this was the assertion of a power which would be frightful if it were not ridiculous. He denied the fact that the custom referred to in the Ordinance existed; on the contrary, for the last forty years, if not longer, printing presses and printing had been allowed in Gibraltar; and a year ago, when a deputation from thence waited upon the Duke of Newcastle, and complained amongst other grievances of the want of newspapers, the Duke, who received them with great courtesy, said he saw no reason why there should not be another newspaper in Gibraltar, or why freedom of the press should not exist there as far as was consistent with the purposes of this country in maintaining a garrison at Gibraltar. At Malta there was more than one newspaper published, and considerable if not complete freedom of the press was allowed; and he (Mr. Bright) saw no reason why Gibraltar should be treated differently. He understood that Sir Robert Gardiner had been recalled, and that measures were in progress for the purpose of appointing some more judicious person to the office; and what he now wanted to know was whether the noble Lord, the Colonial Secretary, had sent out directions for cancelling the ordinance and placing the press of Gibraltar on a more satisfactory footing. He (Mr. Bright) had received a memorial from
 2035
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, all the communications he had received on the subject were so strong that he should move that the Bill be read that day three months.
 MR. BLACKBURN  deprecated a division in the absence of the Scotch Members.
 MR. MALINS  said, that if the House
 2135
 MR. MONSELL  said, in reply that if the hon. and gallant Member would refer to the Order in Council, laid on the table of the House by the command of Her Majesty, dated the 1st of June, he would find all he required with respect to his first question. With regard to the last one, he was afraid it was not possible to lay on the table an estimate of the expenditure in consequence of the proposed changes. There would be some reduction effected, and the amount of that reduction would be found by the hon. and gallant Member by comparing the salaries laid down in the Order in Council with the salaries previously paid.
 MR. OTWAY : I regret very much, Sir, that anything I have said could be thought to impute such conduct as you have described to the right hon. Gentlemen, for nothing was further from my intention than to say that the right hon. Members had been guilty of treason. What I intended to say was, that I conceived that the tenor of their speeches must have led all hon. Members to suppose that any stipulations made by them with the noble Viscount could have been in no other than a favourable light towards Russia. I think it must be conceded that that was their intention, from the remarks which have fallen from the noble Viscount; and, that being the case, it cannot but be thought that the noble Viscount considered them proper conditions, for the noble Viscount and the right hon. Gentlemen were sitting for nearly two years in the same Cabinet, and were fully cognisant of each other's views as to the terms and conditions of peace. I think this a grave matter for consideration, and it is a sorry proof of the harmony which was said to have existed in the Government of the noble Lord; and if these right hon. Gentlemen had so little confidence in their chief, I think it would have been far better if they had not joined his Government. But there is matter far graver than this. In the struggle in which we are engaged we have allies, and I should like to know whether they were made aware of the stipulations of the right hon. Gentlemen? Supposing that the conditions referred to Sebastopol—and I think it not unlikely that they did—what could be more natural than to suppose that our allies, deeming the rebuilding or destruction of that fortress most important, should be desirous of imposing certain conditions with reference to this fortress, concerning which the right hon. Gentlemen may have stipulated with the noble Lord. The same remarks will apply to Bomarsund, and I ask if our allies were not made aware of the stipulations of the right hon. Gentlemen, what becomes of our alliance? There are many other considerations which call for positive inquiry into those proceedings, with reference to which I consider the noble Lord's conduct was neither statesmanlike nor patriotic. There are further considerations connected with the subject with which I will not trouble the House, for the right hon. Gentlemen have seceded
 2038
 MR. OTWAY : I rise to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government the question of which I have given notice, and though I am anxious not to delay the interesting discussion about to take place, still, after having formally given notice of my question, I feel bound to ask it. The noble Viscount has stated in the House, that in February last certain right hon. Gentlemen, who were lately eminent Members of his Government, stipulated as to the conditions of peace, and more especially as to cine which should be asked of Russia. I should be trifling with the House to suppose that those stipulations could have been made with any other view than that of favouring Russia; for those who have had the pain of listening to the speeches of the right hon. Members for Carlisle and the University of Oxford (Sir James Graham and Mr. Gladstone) must be aware that any stipulations as to the conditions of peace made by them could have had no other object than that of being favourable to our enemy.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  replied that there was no intention of altering the arrangements regarding the grants of land as an inducement to persons to enlist in the regular army. There was no resemblance between soldiers enlisted for a long period and foreign legionaries merely enlisted for the period of the war or until disbanded. No offer of land had been made to the Swiss or German legionaries for the purpose of inducing them to enlist; but a suggestion had been made to the Governor-General of Canada to the effect that it would facilitate enlistment if such an offer of land in Canada were made. He was not aware, however that any Act had been passed by the colonial Parliament for this purpose. With respect to officers in the army, it was already arranged, with a view to their settlement in the Colonies, that an abatement should be made in the price of the purchase of land in those Colonies in which
 2034
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, the examination for commissions in the Engineers and Artillery would be an open one, and the successful candidates would be those who showed the greatest proficiency. Under these circumstances, failure would not deprive any of the candidates of any prospect they might have of obtaining commissions in the line from Sandhurst.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : However natural the desire of the hon. Member who has put this question may be to have full information on the subject, I am sure the House will concur with me, that it would be unbecoming in me to enter upon a detailed discussion of the matter. All I can therefore state is this—and I hope it Will be sufficient for the hon. Gentleman and for the House—that when my right hon. Friends, who have lately ceased to be Members of the Government, were considering the proposals that were made to them that they should join the Cabinet, they very naturally and properly desired to come to a clear understanding upon any points upon which it was possible that some difference of opinion might afterwards arise. In so doing, I think they only did that which was due to themselves and to me. There was one point upon which they required information, and that was whether it Was the intention of the Government, then in the course of formation, to make a particular demand upon Russia the  sine quâ non quâ non 2039
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he should support the Bill, which was one much desired in the district to which it referred. An Amendment which he had suggested in the 23rd clause had been acceded to.
 MR. MILES  said, that this was a peculiar case, and stood upon its own merits. With respect to mortgaging the pew rents to persons from whom money might be borrowed, they had a direct precedent in the Act of Parliament called the Pimlico Act. Under the present Bill free seats were accorded to every inhabitant of the pariah; and when the House considered
 2148 l.
 CAPTAIN DUNCOMBE , referring to a statement in  The Times Cossack 2150
 MR. HEADLAM  inquired whether any British officer had availed himself of the protection of a flag of truce for the purpose of taking soundings, at Kertch or elsewhere?
 VISCOUNT GODERICH  said, he considered it a very fortunate coincidence which had led to the reading of the Report of the Committee on the Army before Sebastopol on the evening upon which the debate upon the question of administrative reform was to be resumed. He thought that the reading of that Report must have recalled vividly to the recollection of the House those circumstances which had led, in a great measure, to the excitement now prevalent in the country on the subject of administrative reform. The hon. Baronet opposite (Sir E. B. Lytton), in his speech the other night, stated his opinion that the demand for administrative reform first originated in the disappointment felt by the public at the course pursued by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton soon after he took office. He was not inclined to deny that there had been a wide-spread disappointment at the course pursued by the noble Lord, but, at the same time, he could not concur in the opinion that the strong feeling which existed on the subject of administrative reform had its origin mainly in that circumstance. In his opinion it was the lamentable facts which had led to the appointment of the Committee to whose Report they had just listened, which had been the cause that had first awakened the attention of the country to this important subject. In 1848 the Government made some improvements in these departments, but no step had been taken which could be considered to indicate a real inclination on the part of the Government to grapple with the question of administrative reform, until, under the Government of Lord Aberdeen, the hon. Member for Dudley (Sir S. Northcote) and Sir C. Trevelyan were appointed to inquire into the state of the civil service, the results of which inquiry had already been laid before the House. The administrative system of this country had since then been put to the greatest of tests—namely, that of war, and the evidence taken before the Sebastopol Committee proved in what manner that system had endured that test. The evils which had befallen the army during the last winter had been described in strong language by the Ministers themselves, and he (Viscount Goderich) would not revert to them further than to say that the Government must not have recourse to small and insignificant
 2156 "I will only remark that this Order in Council provides a great additional security for merit in administrative appointments beyond that which now exists. A regular examination, conducted under the superintendence of a board of persons who are independent of each department and unconnected with the heads of those departments, affords a greater security than has ever hitherto existed for the exclusion of unfit persons from the service of the Crown. Whatever difference of opinion may exist as to ulterior measures which it may be thought prudent or wise to adopt, surely it cannot be denied that the provisions of the Order which has recently been brought into force for the first time afford a guarantee for the merit of persons appointed in the different public departments, inasmuch, as by prescribing a certain amount of qualification they will prevent any one from entering the service of the Crown who does not possess that requisite degree of attainments. I cannot but think that the Order in Council to which I have referred gives a practical proof of the efforts made by Her Majesty's Government for securing the efficiency of administrative departments, and goes much further in that direction than any of the very general recommendations which are offered at meetings out of doors. I will not trouble the House any further upon the subject. I will only state my conviction that, so far as any measures for the advancement of the cause of adminstrative reform are concerned, the measures adopted by Her Majesty's Government go as far as it is in the power of any one to embody practically the suggestions which have been made. With respect to ulterior measures, I may add that they remain open for further consideration; and that their adoption can only take place after careful and anxious consideration." [3  Hansard 2157 2158 Taylor's Statesman 2159 "Let any one who has had experience reflect on the operation of patronage on electors, Parliament, and the Government. Over each it exercises an evil influence. In the electors, it interferes with the honest exercise of the franchise; in Parliament it encourages subservience to the Administration; it impedes the free action of a Government desirous of pursuing an honest and economical course, and it occasions the employment of persons without regard to their peculiar fitness. It is a more pernicious system than the mere giving of money to electors or Members of Parliament to secure their votes. It is bribery in its worst form." 2160 2161 2162 "My own experience teaches me that a Secretary of State who should promote any one of his clerks over the heads of his seniors, must arm himself with the fortitude of a martyr. The inflictions he would have to undergo from the tongues or the pens of the kinsmen and kinswomen, of the patrons and the patronesses, of the private and the political connections of the many he had passed over, would leave him no rest day or night. And why is he to incur and brave all this animosity? Just in order that he may hand over his office to his future successor (some political antagonist) in the highest attainable state of perfection. I have no faith in the frequency of such martyrdoms." "It may be added, that where the head of any department makes the experiment of incurring the resentment of powerful persons in order to promote deserving subordinates, he will probably not be supported by public opinion. The disposition of the public is to regard an office as a life estate, and to sympathise with the holder of it, not only when he is passed over for want of merit, but when he is dismissed for positive misconduct." 2163
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that after the noble Lord's allusion to the speech of the hon. Member for Aylesbury, which, he said, had received no reply, he must not be surprised if, passing by the somewhat vague speech just delivered, and which left him in great doubt as to the practical object that the noble Lord aimed at, and the manner in which he proposed to effect the regeneration of the public service; he stated that his object in rising was to endeavour to reply to that portion of the speech of the hon. Member for Aylesbury in which he criticised the existing state of the administration of the army, and in which he described, most erroneously, the principles of favouritism and family connection, and the system of suppression and absolute negation of merit, under
 2164 2165 Army Gazette London Gazette 2166 2167 2168 2169 "The Duke of Wellington was a major general at thirty-three; the Marquess of Anglesey, thirty-four; the Earl of Dalhousie, thirty-eight; the Earl of Strafford, thirty-six; Lord Hill, thirty-three; Lord Beresford, thirty-nine; Sir George Murray, forty; Lord Combermere, thirty-one; Lord Londonderry, thirty-two." detur digniori. "I will now refer to a case of a very opposite description. It is that of an officer, a young man (Captain S——) whose name has never been mentioned in any despatch, and whose services are wholly unnoted." 2170 2171 2172 "Lieutenant Daniell, of the 75th, was an applicant for an unattached company without purchase, and, from his length of service, would have had a
 2173 2174 2175 2176 2177 2178
 MR. DRUMMOND : Sir, the noble Lord (Viscount Goderich) has dwelt upon the inefficiency of the present Ministry; but that is not the matter now under discussion: the meetings which have been held, the speech of the hon. Member for Aylesbury, and the whole argument of the noble Lord deny the sufficiency of any person on either side of the House who has ever been employed in the administration of public affairs. The noble Lord is evidently looking forward to the establishment of an Utopia, for he has declared that what he desires can only be attained by a total sacrifice of selfish or party wishes or consideration; the sacrifice of every individual, of every party, and of every class, both within and without the walls of Parliament.
 2179 civium ardor pravajubentium "He that goeth about to persuade a multitude that they are not so well governed as they ought to be, shall never want attentive and favourable hearers; because they know the manifold defects whereunto every kind of regiment is subject; but the secret lets and difficulties, which in public proceedings are innumerable and inevitable, they have not ordinarily the judgment to consider." 2180 Swarthmore William Schaw Lindsay; 2181 2182 2183 "In the school of political projectors I was
 2184
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he thought the House had lost sight of the true course of proceeding, for not with standing all the complaints which had been made of the faults of the system, he believed that if they had the proper men a the head of each department, everything would go on well. A similar state of things to the present existed from 1744 to 1750, when the King was compelled to send for Mr. Pitt, whom he mortally hated, and that great statesman soon change everything; and what was now wanted was a Minister who would "bell the cat" in a similar manner. He (Mr. Macgre-
 2185 2186
 COLONEL LINDSAY  said, he did not rise so much for the purpose of addressing himself to the question before the House as with a view to notice two cases to which the hon. Gentleman the Member for Aylesbury had referred in his speech on Friday last. The first of these cases was Lord Eustace Cecil. It would perhaps be in the recollection of the House that a few weeks ago he (Colonel Lindsay) had made some remarks upon that case, after it had been brought under their consideration by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Aylesbury. He was not aware at that time that the hon. Gentleman was about to allude to that subject, and he took the precaution of informing the House that he was not speaking from any personal knowledge, but from information communicated to him by other parties. He had since found that there was an inaccuracy in the statement he then addressed to the House; but it was not an inaccuracy of any magnitude; and if it had been, he should have taken an earlier opportunity of publicly correcting it. He said that Lord Eustace Cecil had exchanged into the forty-third; but upon that point he had been misinformed; and he had since learned that Lord Eustace Cecil had not exchanged, but had sought and obtained a commission in that regiment. The hon. Gentleman told them, on Friday last, that the promotion of Lord Eustace Cecil was in direct opposition to all the regulations of the service; but upon that point the hon. Gentleman was in error, for there was nothing in the regulations prohibiting the promotion of the noble Lord, who had been two years in the position of a subaltern. The hon. Gentleman had further stated that he
 2187 2188 2189
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he rejoiced that this question had been taken from the political atmosphere in which it was originally enveloped, and brought before that House in a tangible shape, in which it could be deliberately and satisfactorily discussed. He concurred in many of the observations which the hon. Member for Aylesbury had made with regard to the army. He (Mr. Phillimore) thought that the exclusive privileges conferred on the Guards were inconsistent with the spirit of the constitution. The complaint against those privileges was as old as the period of Junius, and no doubt the privileges enjoyed by the household troops were borrowed from the practice of continental countries. It appeared to him (Mr. Phillimore) that of all the absurdities that it ever entered into the mind of man to conceive, one of the greatest was that of establishing a system of competition by examination for appointments to the public offices. He did not object to an ordinary examination, suited to the duties which the candidates for employment had to perform; but such a system of examination as that mentioned in the Blue-book which had been referred to on the subject, deserved strong condemnation. He was astonished at the proposition of the hon. Member for Dudley (Sir S. Northcote) that they ought to have two sets of clerks—one for the intellectual work, and the other for that which was merely mechanical. Such a proposal was worthy of the author of the Report, than which a more thoroughly pompous and pedantic production, or one betraying more consummate and stupid ignorance of human nature, was not to be found even among the Blue-books, or among the works of the school of which the hon. Baronet was so striking and exact a specimen. With respect to the
 2190
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I should not have deemed it necessary to say a word in support of the Amendment of my hon. Friend the Member for Hertfordshire, had it not been for some remarks made in the course of the debate, and especially one by my hon. Friend the Member for West Surrey, who with that Rabelaisian humour which is peculiar to him, sneered at the term of administrative reform, and said that he could not annex any meaning to it, and doubted whether
 2191 2192 2193 2194 2195 2196 2197 2198 2199 2200 2201 2202 2203 l. l. 2204 2205 2206 2207 2208 2209
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, before I advert to the Motion which is now before us, I must say a word or two personal to myself with reference to accusations which were brought against me by the hon. Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Layard), at a meeting which lately took place in Drury Lane theatre. In that speech, made on an occasion with regard to which I am not wrong in saying that many persons represented as being there never were there at all, and that, with regard to there being public discussion, it was arranged that only two or three of the persons who had convened the meeting should speak upon the matter—at that meeting the hon. Member for Aylesbury is reported to have used the following expressions—and I conclude he was accurately reported, as he has not since contradicted it. Speaking of me he said—
 "This was the only time he had seen a man jesting upon the sufferings of the people and making light of their unfortunate condition—and this, too, was done at a moment when all Europe was looking to the British Parliament for an example of wisdom, order, and liberal Government. Indeed, he must acknowledge, that he had never seen Lord Palmerston in earnest except when vilifying the people of this country. 2210 2211 Attaché 2212 2213 2214 l. 2215 2216 "He came to curse and remained to bless." 2217 2218
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY : I, too, have waited here all the evening, in the hope that the hon. Gentleman would get up and make those statements in his place which he thought proper to make at Drury Lane. I did not think it becoming to the House that I should take notice of such virulent untruths. I am prepared, when the hon. Gentleman repeats those statements in this House, where he is supposed to do so upon the character and honour of a representative of the people, to meet him fairly, and to tell him to his face that the statements are not founded in fact.
 MR. OTWAY : I am sorry that the gallant Member who has just resumed his seat differs so essentially from the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) as to the propriety of answering statements made elsewhere, for the noble Lord did not think it unbecoming to reply to the arguments which were urged by my hon. Friend (Mr. Layard) at Drury Lane. But the gallant Admiral who uses such courteous and Parliamentary language has not considered it right to accept now the invitation of the hon. Member for Tynemouth (Mr. Lindsay). As that hon. Gentleman has said that, in addition to the statements which he made elsewhere he is prepared to bring charges of a still heavier nature against the Government, and as the gallant Admiral says he desires nothing more than an opportunity of meeting those charges, I think there is conclusive ground for continuing this debate, and a still stronger reason is, that there are many hon. Gentlemen who
 2220
 MR. LAYARD , in resuming the debate, appealed to the indulgence of the House while he said a few words, not in reply, but in explanation. He regretted that the debate had not been adjourned after what had fallen from the gallant Admiral who had lately spoken, especially as he had made some observations couched neither in very courteous, nor in very Parliamentary language, respecting the veracity of his hon. Friend the Member for Tynemouth, which that hon. Gentleman ought to have the opportunity of setting right with the House. With regard to that which fell from the noble Lord concerning the words he was reported to have used at the Drury Lane meeting—and which were not, perhaps, quite accurately reported—he had this explanation to make: He thought he could appeal to this House to say if, while the heart of this country was wrung with a deep feeling of pain, and sorrow pervaded the land, the noble Lord did not in this august assembly rise more than once in his place upon subjects of grave importance, and treat them with a levity which created the greatest astonishment throughout the country. He believed and trusted, however, that the tone of the noble Lord had since improved. If his hon. Friend the Member for Stoke (Mr. Leveson Gower) was in his place, he begged to assure him that when the other evening he made an allusion to Earl Granville, he had not the smallest intention of making any reflection upon that nobleman, but merely intended to say that the governing classes were confined very much to families, illustrating this by quoting his Lordship's remark that he had three cousins in the Government of Lord Derby. It was quite foreign to his intention to make any personal charge on Earl Granville, and he should always gratefully remember that noble Lord's kindness to himself. At the same time, he trusted he (Mr. Layard) should never be like the man in the small boat, to whom allusion had been made that evening, and if ever he did get into the ship he hoped he should never forget that there were others who wished to get in as well as himself. He
 2221 2222
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  thought, under all the circumstances, and considering the lateness of the hour, and also that the House was to meet at twelve o'clock, that it would be better to agree to the Motion of the hon. Member.
 MR. DISRAELI  hoped that the noble Lord would consent to the Metropolitan Improvement Bill being taken before the Tenants' Compensation Bill.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that there was nothing like standing to an arrangement, and, therefore, the Irish Bill would be first taken.
 MR. DISRAELI  then gave notice that, if he were present, as he hoped to be, when the House met at twelve o'clock (this day), he should move that the Metropolitan Improvements Bill should take precedence of the Irish Bill.
 MR. DISRAELI : I see, Sir, that tomorrow there is to be a morning sitting, and I take this opportunity to express a hope that the noble Lord at the head of the Government has considered the question of such sittings since I made an observation on the subject a few days ago. I have not any intention now to dwell on the inconvenience which it will cause to Members of this House if we adopt the system of morning sittings; but I wish the noble Lord would consider the effect which the habitual holding of these sittings may have upon the labours of the right hon. Gentleman who sits in the chair, and upon the staff charged with the transaction of the business of this House. The fact is that if we, as a matter of course, adopt these morning sittings, the Speaker will very often have to sit in that Chair, with a slight interval, for more than twelve hours continuously. Then, the staff of this
 2152 2153
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : So far as any report has been received at the Admiralty, I believe any such statement to be utterly untrue.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : I am exceedingly sorry to say that the statement to which my hon. and gallant Friend alludes is only too true, I will state to the House what I believe did actually occur; and, in order that the fullest information may be laid before the public with reference to the subject, I will lay upon the table the despatches received this morning from Admiral Dundas, containing the full particulars of the transaction in question. It appears that some short time ago Her Majesty's ship  Cossack Cossack Cossack 2151 Cossack
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he would not oppose the third reading, but he wished for some explanation with regard to the 32nd clause. Under that clause it appeared that not only all the Church Building Acts in existence were to be extended to this Act, but also all the Church Building Acts which might hereafter come in force. It was admitted that no person could understand those Acts, and therefore their extension to the present Bill Would only make "confusion worse confounded." He certainly trusted that it was not intended by the present Act in any way whatever to throw an obligation upon the Church Building Acts in existence which should prevent their expiring in July, 1856.
 MR. GRANVILLE VERNON  hoped the Amendment would be withdrawn.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, that the clause in question was pot in by the opponents of the Bill, and Was accepted by the promoters.
 MR. SWIFT  asked the First Lord of the Treasury whether it was true that application had been made by the English Government to the Emperor of the French to secure his interference with the Holy See in regard to the appointment of a coadjutor bishop for the Catholic diocess of Elphin, such interference being supposed to be in favour of the Rev. Mr. Kilroe, Secretary of the present Bishop of Elphin, and a known political partisan of the Irish Attorney General?—2. Whether any such interference in respect to the appointment of a coadjutor bishop, if not made formally by the English Prime Minister to Count Walewski, had been made less officially through some subordinate Members or agent of the English or French Governments; or whether there had been any interference substantially of this nature or to this effect in any other form, or through any other channel?—3. Whether the Government had any objection to lay upon the table of the House the correspondence which is known to have taken place on occasion of the vacancy of the Catholic diocess of Armagh in 1850, and the letters, whether emanating from Members of Lord John Russell's Cabinet, or from subordinate Members of the same Administration, by which an attempt was made to secure in Rome the appointment to the vacant see of a nominee of the English Government?
 MR. LASLETT  hoped that the Amendment would be withdrawn.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  complained of the inconvenience of morning sittings to Members who were occupied all day on Select Committees.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he considered the prolongation of the sittings of the House greatly owing to the excessive length of hon. Gentlemen's speeches.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  bore testimony to the necessity for further church accommodation at Torquay, and supported the Bill.
 MR. PALK  said, that the population of Torquay had very much increased during the last few years, and the church accommodation had not kept pace with it. It was by the advice of the Bishop of Exeter that the promoters had applied to Parliament for the powers sought by the Bill, including the power which the hon. and learned Member thought so objectionable.
 MR. ROBERT PHILLIMORE  said, he would respond to the appeal which had been made to him, and withdraw the Amendment.
 MR. ROBERT PHILLIMORE  strongly objected to that clause in the measure, under which the expenses incurred in its passing through Parliament could be defrayed out of the proceeds of the pew rents which might be received from any persons whatever during a period of thirty years. Such a provision would be a manifest violation of ecclesiastical law, and might be so used as to leave no seats for the poor in their own parish church. He also objected to that portion of the preamble of the Bill in which it was declared that its object could not be gained without the special intervention of Parliament. In his opinion all that was valuable in the measure could be attained by means of existing statutes, and that statement of the preamble was, therefore, he considered, inaccurate. Under those circumstances he should move, as an Amendment, that the Bill be read a third time that day three months.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : No correspondence of the kind to which the hon. Member refers has taken place, and, in regard to any former correspondence on the subject, I have no knowledge whatever of it.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I am quite as sensible as the right hon. Gentleman opposite of the great inconvenience not only to hon. Members, but to you, Mr. Speaker, to the clerks of this House, and, I will also add, to all official men, which arises from having to attend morning sittings, coupled with our late sittings at night. But, on the other hand, the House must feel that when there are important measures before it which it is desirable should become law, it is necessary they should leave this House after receiving its assent in sufficient time to be properly considered before the close of the Session by the other House of Parliament; and it is impossible that they can be duly discussed here while other propositions and Motions are brought forward, unless we combine morning sittings with those which we hold in the evening. Why, I am constantly asked by hon. Gentlemen having Motions to make, to give them a day for that purpose, and even to postpone public business on Government nights in their favour. If those applications should be systematically declined, the forms of the House may be taken advantage of, and Motion after Motion may be made upon the Question that the Speaker leave the chair before we go into Committee of Supply, and thus the Government may be left in a position in which it has no command over the progress of the business of the country. Therefore, if the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) would make his appeal to other persons as well as me, and entreat hon. Members who have Motions to make to content themselves with those days of the week which the rules of
 2154
 MR. MAGUIREL  said, that the Bill now about to be brought forward had been before the House in one shape or another for the last twenty years. It was of a thousand times more importance than the Metropolitan Management Bill; and much as he sympathised with the Speaker, he should persevere in thinking the Bill ought to be proceeded with.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he was not aware of any such arrangement between the Government and the Opposition side of the House as the Chief Secretary for Ireland had described. He objected on principle to this Bill, as it would give rise to practices of evasion and fraud.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he, at all events, had never approved of the principle of the Bill, which he considered would be very prejudicial to Ireland, The principle of giving a tenant money to be laid out in improvements, with the consent of his landlord was right; but the Bill went to a most iniquitous extent, and the principle enunciated by the right hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier) had been repudiated throughout the country. The Chief Secretary for Ireland had no confidence in his Bill, and showed himself insincere in its support by the Amendments he proposed, confining it to the most narrow limits. The Whole affair, he believed, was a mere traffic in party support. It was his opinion that its only object was to gain temporary popularity, which would not be gained, because of the insincerity which was shown by the Government. How did the Government intend the Bill to work as to existing contracts? Were new contracts to be made? The old contracts were made on the supposition that improvements were not made by the landlord. The provisions of the Bill were wholly unsatisfactory and unintelligible, and he defied the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland to explain them. They Would be a fertile source of litigation, and bad feeling would be created between landlord and tenant.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he would beg to move the addition of words limiting the application of the clause to improvements made during existing tenancies, with the view of avoiding litigation as to improvements made during tenancies which have already expired. He also would propose to add a proviso that persons holding under leases should not be entitled to claim compensation for improvements made after the passing of the Bill without the consent in writing of the landlord for the time being.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he would postpone his Amendment for the 14th clause.
 MR. MILES  said, he rose to ask the hon. Gentleman the Clerk of the Ordnance what the Government proposed to do with the boys at the Ordnance School, Carshalton, who were eligible and ready for examination on Tuesday and Wednesday, the 5th and 6th of June instant, but were not examined; why they were not examined; and whether they would be on the 8th of July; or, if not, how the Government proposed to deal with them?
 CAPTAIN LEICESTER VERNON  said, he would now beg, pursuant to notice, to move for a copy of the Report of Major General Hardinge, Assistant Inspector General of Fortifications, on the building erected for the Lancaster shot manufactory at Woolwich, and the Report on that building by Sir Charles Fox. In bringing forward the Motion, he might perhaps be permitted to say a few words in reference to it, as the question involved, not only the interests of the country, but those of the corps of Royal Engineers, to which he had the honour to belong. On a previous occasion he had taken the opportunity of asking the hon. Gentleman the Clerk of the Ordnance whether the manufactory for making shot and shell had been erected by the firm of Fox and Henderson without the supervision of the Royal Engineers; if so, why such a step had been taken; whether the work executed had been to the entire satisfaction of the Board of Ordnance; and whether it had been examined by an officer of Engineers? The reply that he had received was to the effect that Colonel Foster, commanding the Royal Engineers at Woolwich, had signified that the work was not going on satisfactorily. Thereupon Messrs. Fox and Henderson were communicated with, and they entered into a guarantee which barred all future interference. However, it appeared the work was still going on unsatisfactorily, and Major General Hardinge was appointed to report upon it. That Report was also unsatisfactory, and was communicated to Sir Charles Fox, who requested a friend of his own to go and inspect the work on his behalf. Well, the
 2247 l. 2248 "You ask my opinion of the English army now acting with us in the Crimea. Well, I will begin with the Royal Engineers, a corps which, from what I have seen of it at work, I think could not be excelled, and could seldom be equalled, in any part of the world. The education of the officers, the training and energy of the men, are fully equal to our qualifications. As to the courage of the troops, I need not say that they are like the rest of the British soldiers, brave almost to a fault. If ever there were a corps of which the British nation ought to be proud, it is that of the Royal Engineers." 2249
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he thought after the conversation which had just taken place, that the House would not be surprised at the disasters which had befallen our army at the commencement of the war. The fact now disclosed was, that the hon. Gentleman had taken upon himself the conduct of matters with which he was wholly unacquainted, instead of leaving them to the direction of the corps of Royal Engineers. The Board of Ordnance in this matter merited severe censure. Many of the disasters in the Crimea had been occasioned by the same improper interference, and he warned the hon. Gentleman that if he persevered in this course the army would have no confidence whatever in his conduct of this department.
 COLONEL DUNNE  seconded the Motion. He said that he had given notice of a Motion for a Committee of inquiry into the postal arrangements generally in Ireland, and it was his intention to expose other practices in the Post Office besides those of irregularity. If the Government were sincere in their desire for administrative reform, let them grant a Committee with a view to reforming the Post Office arrangements in Ireland.
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, he would now beg to bring forward the Resolution relative to the Statute Law Commission, of which he had given notice. He considered that it was time Parliament should show that it was really in earnest on this important subject. Great expense had already been incurred without any practical result, and it appeared to him that the Commission had only trifled with the question which had been committed to their charge. A modern French writer, M. Villemain, had described the English law as an endless study and a learned chaos; and it was evident that, by keeping up the mass of existing verbiage, in the shape of these obsolete Statutes, we were wasting a vast amount of legal learning, besides giving rise to that uncertainty which necessarily existed as to what the law really was. He thought that, when they looked to the progress of the nation in other ways, it would be admitted that we were considerably behind in regard to the state of our laws, both written and unwritten. So much were they in need of consolidation, so confused were they, and frequently so ill-expressed, that they were almost as unintelligible as in the olden time, when they were written in bad Latin, or afterwards in worse French. It was impossible, with the vast amount of obsolete Acts which still encumbered our Statute Book, for even a man bred to the law to know what the law really was, they were such an undigested mass of enactments—some repealed, some obsolete, and some irreconcilable with subsequent Acts. To show the growth of this confusion, Mr.
 2254 l. Code Napoleon
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he agreed in a great deal of what the hon. Member had stated, though he did not think it necessary to enter into a discussion on the condition of our written and unwritten law. It was admitted on all hands that the Statute Book required considerable revision, and that there were many obsolete Acts which ought to be expunged from it. The expurgatory list made out by the Commissioners contained between 10,000 and 11,000 Statutes, and the hon. Member proposed to deal at once with all these. But the fact was this expurgatory list was in so imperfect a state, that it would be impossible to make it the basis of a declaratory Act. The Commissioners had made out this list as a rough sketch of what might be done; they made it out, having been at work three months; and was the House to deal, without further inquiry and consideration, with these 11,000 Statutes, in the manner the hon. Member proposed? So far, then, as the
 2256
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the fact was not as stated by the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Massey), that the Commission now consisted only of Mr. Bellenden Ker and his secretary. The whole subject was under the consideration of highly qualified persons, and each of them took a particular branch of the Statute Law under his care. It was not correct, therefore, to say that the whole work was in the hands only of the chief Commissioner and his secretary.
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, that he had not proposed that the Expurgatory List should be adopted without any revision, but he wished that it should be revised, and that it should then form the groundwork of a declaratory Bill.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, the proposal he was about to make was a very simple one, and would not require any lengthened statement on his part. He was about to ask the House to do an act of justice to a class of men who, even in ordinary times, were entitled to the favourable consideration of the House, but who, from the dangers to which they were now exposed, and the fortitude and gallantry they had recently displayed in defence of the honour of their country, had special claims upon its attention. This Motion, however, did not require to be enforced by an appeal to the generosity of the House, its adoption should be conceded on grounds of simple justice. By the regulations at present in operation in the army, if a regimental officer died in the performance of his duty, the money which he had paid for his original commission, as well as for every subsequent step of promotion, was wholly forfeited and lost to his family. The effect of this system was, that when an officer of rank died, the country, so far from having remunerated him for his services, must, in almost every instance, be considered as being absolutely his pecuniary debtor. A lieutenant colonel in
 2261 l. l. l. l. 2262 2263
 COLONEL DUNNE  said the hon. Gentleman, the Under Secretary for War, seemed rather puzzled by the case as put by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Headlam). The fact was, that after greatly underpaying officers in the army, when they were killed in action you could not give them the money they had paid for their commissions. So large a number had been recently killed or died, that no one dared ask the House for the sum required to pay for their commissions. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Peel) said some time ago that the Government had sold a number of vacant commissions, and had realised a large sum, and he (Colonel Dunne) thought that
 2267
 COLONEL NORTH  said, the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary at War had forgotten the disadvantage which officers on active service laboured under when seeking to insure their lives. An officer going out to Quebec or the Ionian Islands could get his life readily insured; but if going out to the Crimea, he could not get an office to open a policy, or if it did, it would be at an immense premium. He certainly thought that something ought to be done to meet the case of an officer who went to take part in a campaign, and who was, in consequence, deprived of the opportunity of insuring his life on anything like moderate terms.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, that after the discussion which had passed, he thought he ought not to press his Motion. He understood the proposal of the noble Lord at the head of the Government to be this, that every officer henceforth should have the option of declaring whether he would take the benefit to be given to his family, in case of his death, under the new warrant, or whether he would have for his family the regulation annuity. After such a great concession on the part of the Government, if he understood it rightly, he would not persist in his Motion.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, as a professional man I am desirous of bearing my testimony to the unwonted zeal and enduring qualities displayed by Captain M'Clure, the officers, and ship's company, in the performance of the arduous service assigned to them. It was unnecessary to be reminded of the anxiety which had been displayed by the nation for the important discovery of the north-west passage, an anxiety springing from ambition to maintain even in such expeditions of hazard our maritime ascendancy. During three centuries fifty-eight times had the attempt been made by the most distinguished nations of Europe, and I am proud to know at last it has been achieved by the intrepidity of British seamen. I therefore hope the noble Lord at the head of the Government will accede to the Motion. For my own part I am free to confess that I had from the very commencement regarded the expeditions as practically useless; at the same time that consideration did not in the slightest degree derogate from the high qualifications and extraordinary exertions of the officers engaged in them.
 LORD ALFRED PAGET  said, that some time since he had placed a similar notice on the paper, but his Motion only went as far as the widows and orphans of officers who fell in action. As long as the State recognised the principle of purchase in the army, he conceived it was only just that the widows and orphans of officers should receive the price of their commissions. At present one officer, upon being ordered for foreign service, might sell his commission and realise a large sum; while another officer, who felt bound in honour to follow his regiment, might fall in battle, and the value of his commission be lost to his family. Surely, the widows and orphans of an officer killed in action or by pestilence, when on foreign service, if not other relatives, should receive the full benefit of his commission. He had prepared a statement which clearly showed that the pay of officers, in relation to the cost of commissions, was inadequate. The regulation price of the commission of a lieutenant colonel in the Life Guards was 7,250 l. l. l. l. l. s. l. s. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. d. l. s. d. 2268 s. d. s. l. l. l. l. l. s. d. l. l. l. s. d. . l. l. s. d. l. l. l. s. d. l. l. l. s. d. l. l. l. s. d. l. l. l. s. l. l. l. s. d. l. l. s. d. l. l. l. l. l. 2269 l. l. l.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the proper form was for the noble Lord to move that the debate be adjourned.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, that the Expurgatory List, drawn up by Messrs. Anstey and Rogers, had been prepared with great intelligence and ability, and the chief Commissioner had himself stated that it was of great value, although in a work of such extent it was, perhaps, impossible to avoid some inaccuracies. The present Motion merely proposed the preparation of a declaratory Bill of which the Report should form the groundwork. It simply took up the proposal of the Lord Chancellor, and suggested that a Bill should be founded upon the Report, which the chief Commissioner had declared must be the basis of any such measure.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he must beg to explain that it was only proposed that the first thirteen clauses of the Bill should be taken at the morning sitting. Those clauses related only to prospective compensation, about which, he believed, there was no difference of opinion. With regard to the other principle involved in the Bill, that of retrospective compensation, an appeal had been made to him by the hon. and learned Member for Wexford (Mr. McMahon), and by the hon. and learned Member for Wallingford (Mr. Malins), who represented that the fourteenth clause, which involved that very important principle, ought to be debated at an evening sitting, as some gentlemen of the legal profession, who were anxious to take part in its discussion, could not be present in the morning. He (Mr. Horsman) communicated with the noble Lord at the head of the Government, who authorised him to assent to their suggestion; and the Government arranged to give Thursday evening to the discussion of that 14th clause. He trusted, therefore, that the noble Lord opposite and his friends would hardly take the unusual course of preventing the Government from pursuing their own course with their own Bills. As for the Amendment, of which notice had been given by the hon. and learned Member opposite (Mr. Peacocke), it was in itself an irregularity, as it would be raising a discussion in Committee on the principle of the Bill, which had already been raised and disposed of, a majority of 160 to 50 being in its favour upon the occasion of the second reading. If it were the object of the hon. and learned Gentleman to raise the question of retrospective compensation, he might raise it more properly on Thurs-
 2232
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he thought the proposal would apply with greater accuracy to the 14th clause. He would, therefore, suggest that notice should be given of the addition, as the words opened up an important question, which he did not think the Committee was at this moment in a position to consider.
 MR. RICE  said, he was decidedly of opinion that the principle involved in the various clauses of the Bill ought to undergo full consideration; and therefore it was most necessary that they should go into Committee.
 MR. RICE  said, he thought the strong feeling entertained by the country against the purchase system in the army would be much mitigated by the adoption of some such plan as that proposed by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Headlam). He must, however, protest against the argument of the Under Secretary for War, that a purchased commission was a personal trust, and believed it to be an investment—a very bad one indeed, but one which an officer ought to have the power of bequeathing to his widow for sale on his death.
 MR. FRENCH  said, he should oppose the addition of the words, as calculated to sweep away the whole system of tenant-right in Ulster.
 MR. FRENCH  said, that looking at the number of Irish Members present, it was
 2253
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he thought the difficulties in the way of consolidation were very greatly exaggerated. Year after year, however, money was voted for the purpose, and nothing was done, apologies never being wanting for the delay. If the Statute-book was reduced to proper dimensions, it would be most useful to those who were engaged in the practice of the law. If rightly undertaken, it was a work which could easily be performed; but it never would be effected by men whose minds were engaged in other pursuits and other objects. His decided conviction was, that if a moderate staff of zealous men were
 2260
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, he rose pursuant to notice, to move that the House resolve itself into Committee on the Bill upon that day three months. Considering that property to the extent of 15,000,000 l. 2233 2234
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he considered that the House was bound to let the Bill go into Committee, and try and amend it; or, failing in that to reject it on the third reading. It had been argued that this was a revolutionary and novel Bill. Why, in its principles and details it was similar to that laid upon the table by the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Napier) the late Attorney General for Ireland, heralded by publications under his auspices, and sanctioning the retrospective principle. And yet the opposition to the Bill was now put entirely upon that principle. On the introduction of the Bill by his right hon. and learned Friend, his hon. Friend (Mr. Grogan) had not objected to the retrospective principle, and had declared, "that the measure would give general satisfaction." That was a Bill containing the retrospective principle. Principles of this kind ought not to be made the instruments of party; and the Bill of the right hon. and learned Gentleman was a pledge td the tenantry of Ireland that its principles should be carried out. Those Members who now opposed the Bill should have resisted it on that occasion, and not allowed such a pledge to be given, which now compelled him to
 2238
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he had given notice of an Amendment to the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member, and if the hon. Gentleman the Clerk of the Ordnance would consent to this addition he would offer no objection whatever to the returns. He asked for this addition in justice to the gentlemen alluded to by the hon. and gallant Member—he meant Sir Charles Fox and Mr. Henderson. If he thought that his hon. and gallant Friend would have gone at such length on the subject of the erection of this building, he could have referred to certain documents which would have clearly explained the nature of the entire matter. All he asked now was that in justice to those gentlemen, if the report of Major General Hardinge be ordered to be laid before the House, it be accompanied by the reply of Sir Charles Fox to that report, and also the subsequent report of Mr. John Anderson, Inspector of Machinery to the Board of Ordnance, in relation to the work in question. The firm of which Sir Charles Fox was the principal member were called upon to erect a manufactory in a space of time unprecedentedly short. They
 2250
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he would express a hope that in the composition of the Committee there would be a fair representation of the Irish Members.
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, after the statement which had been made of the intentions of the Secretary for War with regard to the Royal Military Academy at Woolwich, he thought it would not be expedient to bring forward the Motion of which he bad given notice for an Address praying Her Majesty to substitute an open examination in place of the present system of nominations for admission into that academy.
 MR. WILSON  said, the first duty of the Post Office was to provide for the rapid, uniform, and regular delivery of letters. That object, however, must be regulated somewhat by the nature of the particular service and fiscal considerations. So far from the Government being parsimonious in respect to this service in Ireland, it appeared that for the year ending the 5th January last there was a deficit of something like 2,000 l. l.
 MR. BRADY  said, he would gladly have seen the proposed inquiry extended to the whole of Ireland, for there were many other irregularities in the postal service in other parts of Ireland besides those which had just been brought under the notice of the House.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he thought the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member (Mr. S. Fitzgerald) was included in words which he (Mr. George) had given notice of as an Amendment on the 14th clause.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he was ready to go into Committee on the portions of the Bill not objectionable in principle, and he had prepared Amendments upon the prospective clauses. But he had never approved of the retrospective clauses, and when his right hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Napier) introduced his Bill he had objected to that principle. Nor had he consented to the Bill of the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny (Mr. Serjeant Shee) going to a Committee. He was prepared, however, to agree to the prospective portions of the Bill, and to redeem his pledge by going into Committee upon them. He had given credit to his right hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Napier) for skill and learning in the preparation of his Bill, but had never pledged himself to its details.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he would beg to point out that it was of the greatest importance that this question should be settled as soon as possible, for it was doing great mischief in Ireland to leave it in its present state.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he did not think it was unnatural for hon. Members, seeing the large sum of money which had been voted for this Commission, to expect some useful result from it. He himself thought that the opportunity might have been taken for the consolidation of Acts English and Irish, and the formation of Imperial Statutes, so as to bring the laws of the United Kingdom into as much harmony as possible. But until we had a separate department of Public Justice, he did not anticipate that our laws would be reduced to that uniformity, simplicity, and clearness which were so desirable. If the salaries of the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, of these Statute Law Commissioners, and of the Administrative Reform Commissioners, who were to be appointed, were put together, it would furnish more than enough for the establishment of a department of Public Justice. To revise the laws on some intelligible principle, to place them on some uniform basis, and to have them philosophically arranged, was worthy the serious attention of that House. Although the Motion of the hon. Member for East Surrey (Mr. L. King), was not likely to lead to any direct result, he thought that it would be useful as indirectly stimulating the Commissioners and the Government in the execution of the task they had undertaken to perform.
 MR. MONTAGU CHAMBERS  said, he objected to the Motion of the hon. Gentleman, that it was not large enough—being confined to the officers engaged in actual warfare in the Crimea. He thought the misery of a man being banished to an unhealthy and distant climate, whilst others were engaged in war, deserved consideration, and that a man who perished under those circumstances was as much entitled to the privileges spoken of, as he who died on the field of battle. It was difficult, he would confess, to draw the line. Some officers perished on their passage to the Crimea; others died of sickness on the eve of battle. He did not believe there existed any such privilege as had been mentioned of an officer being allowed to sell out when he was ordered for active service.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, the Statute Law never would be consolidated until the Commissioners took in hand the Statutes of each particular reign one by one, so that all obsolete or unnecessary laws might be struck out of the Statute-book, and none left but what were now actually in force. He agreed with the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier), that there ought to be a Minister of Justice appointed, and he would give as an instance an error which had crept into the Merchant Shipping Act last Session, which could not have occurred had the Act been revised by such an officer. With regard to the consolidation of the Common Law, that he thought was quite impossible, and therefore he hoped the hon. Gentleman would confine his attention to the consolidation of the Statute Law.
 MR. MALINS  said, he concurred in principle with the hon. Member for East Surrey, that it was desirable those numerous Statutes which were obsolete, or no longer law, should not be printed in the Statute Book as parts of the law. But if this were to be done, it was most necessary
 2257 2258
 MR. MEAGHER  said, he would now beg to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the postal arrangements in reference to the counties of Waterford, Tipperary, Cork, and Limerick, with a view to ascertain how they might be im-
 2252
 MR. MACKINNON : Sir, I feel that I ought to explain to the House the reasons that induce me to move for a Select Committee on the present occasion. On looking over the manner in which the House has dealt with the expedition under Sir John Ross, when Boothia was discovered; it appears that a Committee of this House was appointed in 1834, for the purpose of taking the subject into consideration, and I consider this to form a sort of precedent for me at present. The Committee of '34 awarded, after mature consideration, 5000 l. Bona Esperanza 2243 l. 2244 l. l. Enterprise Investigator Gorgon Investigator Enterprise. Investigator Enterprise l. Investigator 2245
 MR. MASSEY  said, he wished to know whether they were to leave these laws in their present unsatisfactory state, or to resort to the common sense mode of dealing with them, that of delegating the revision to certain stated gentlemen. That was the object of the Royal Commission last year. If those gentlemen were really prosecuting their duties with attention, then the censure of the hon. Member for East Surrey (Mr. L. King) was misplaced. But would the hon. Member by his Motion interrupt the labours of that Commission? Was it not a fact that the Commissioners had quarrelled among themselves? And had not their internal dissensions interrupted the progress of their work? The House now was told that the labours of these Commissioners were extremely valuable, but for some reason or other they were turned out, and only the Chief Commissioner and his secretary left. The hon.
 2259
 MR. MONSELL  said, he had no objection to lay upon the table of the House the correspondence referred to in the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Chatham (Captain L. Vernon), and the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. I. Butt). The Board of Ordnance had no intention whatever of casting any slight upon the corps of Royal Engineers in the course which had been taken with respect to the new Lancaster shell manufactory. The facts were that Colonel Foster was called upon to prepare, in conjunction with Messrs. Fox, Henderson, and Co., a plan for the erection of the Lancaster Foundry. Some days after the Lancaster Foundry had been commenced, Colonel Foster came to him (Mr. Monsell),
 2251
 MR. MONSELL  said, he must beg to state that any boys fit for examination would be examined at the earliest possible opportunity. The delay which had taken place was owing to the state of transition in which the whole arrangements connected with the Ordnance had been for some time placed. He must, however, at the same time state that the decision which his noble Friend the Secretary of State for the War Department had come to was to abolish altogether the preparatory school at Carshalton; but that would be done in such a manner as not to interfere with existing nominations. With regard to admissions into Woolwich generally, as it had been decided upon altering the system of admission into the academy, he could not at the present moment inform the hon. Gentleman how the boys in question would be dealt with. He might add, that the only admissions as yet made by competition were into the practical class; but it was under the consideration of his noble Friend whether the same principle would not be extended to the theoretical class also, and to the academy generally.
 MR. OTWAY  seconded the Motion.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he did not press for a division, but he wished to have a clear understanding on the subject. He did not so clearly apprehend what had been said by the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston). Had the noble Lord in any way conceded the principle of the Motion, and would he allow greater advantages to the widows and orphans or representatives of officers who fell in action than they at present enjoyed?
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, the Motion originally placed upon the paper by the hon. Gentleman was that, whenever an officer died, the value of his commission should be included in the property distributed among those of his relations who were entitled to it. That Motion raised a general principle upon which he should have felt disposed to take issue; but the hon. Gentleman had since materially altered the form of his Motion, leaving the simple declaration, that officers dying in the course of the war should be allowed to bequeath the value of their commissions to their relatives. Now, if the principle of the Resolution were a sound one, he
 2264 2265 l. maximum l. l. maximum 2266
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he wished the House to decide at once whether the Bill should go into Committee then, or be postponed; if hon. Gentlemen persisted in debating the principle of the Bill at that moment, the whole morning would be wasted.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the Bill for the reform of the Corporation of the City of London was founded, in its main features, upon the recommendations of the Commissioners of Inquiry, subject to some modifications as to details, in which those recommendations would be to a certain extent departed from. As to the other question, he could only say that he certainly had intended, and hoped to be able to carry that intention into effect, to submit that Bill to the House in time to secure for it the consideration and attention which its importance demanded. But the debates which had arisen on subjects of great importance, and had necessarily occupied much of the attention of the House, had unavoidably retarded the progress of various Bills. The Metropolis Local Management Bill, referred to by the hon. Member, was one of them; it had not yet got through Committee; then it had to be advanced through its other stages. There were also the Australian Constitution Bills, the Bills for establishing limited liability in partnerships, and the Cambridge University Bill, which had just come down from the House of Lords. In addition, they knew that the House of Lords had passed a Resolution declaring that they would not read any Bill a second time—unless it were a Bill of Supply, or one rendered necessary by urgent circumstances—after the 24th of July. He was bound to say that he thought the public business was rather retarded than advanced by having a multitude of important Bills before the House at one time. Under these circumstances he did not see any prospect of being able to lay the Bill referred to before the House that Session—that is, with any hopes of its passing.
 2242
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he must appeal to the House not to enter upon any discussion of the principle of the Bill, but to take the advice of the right hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Mr. Napier) and allow the House to go into Committee. The principle of the Bill had been affirmed by both Houses of Parliament, and by successive Governments. The second reading had been carried by a majority of 163 to 51, and he trusted that those hon. Members who were anxious for the progress of the Bill would abstain from discussing the question, and agree to consider the clauses in Committee.
 MR. CAIRNS  said, he feared that the Committee were premature in considering this Amendment at this portion of the Bill.
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, he was surprised that the supporters of the Bill did not rise to uphold it. Great principles were in-
 2239
 SIR JOHN V. SHELLEY  said, he thought that the House ought to have some consideration for Mr. Speaker, who had occupied the Chair until past two o'clock on that morning. If the debate went on
 2231
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he wished to ask when the Government intended to introduce the promised measure for the reform of the Corporation of the City of London, and whether such Bill would he founded upon the recommendation of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into that corporation? It had been stated on a former occasion that the Bill would be brought in as soon as the Metropolis Local Management Bill had passed through certain stages. That Bill was now very far advanced, and the subject was of very great importance, especially to the inhabitants of London.
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said he could not subscribe to the principle enunciated by the right hon. Baronet, that because a previous division upon this subject had taken place in both Houses of Parliament, hon. Gentlemen, who might upon that occasion have happened to be in the minority,
 2235 2236 2237
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, that he was one of those who objected to the prospective, as well as to the retrospective operation of this Bill; and he thought the principle had not yet been sufficiently argued. He saw no reason why the relation of landlord and tenant should be so entirely altered in Ireland. It was now half-past one o'clock, and he would ask was there any chance of making any progress with the clauses? The Metropolitan Local Management Bill had already been in Committee, and some progress might be made with it.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  accordingly moved the adjournment of the debate.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, that in the absence of the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli), he should move that the second Bill upon the paper (the Metropolis Local Management Bill) take precedence of the Bill now before the House.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he could assure the hon. Gentleman he should have much pleasure in agreeing to his Motion. It was impossible that any one in that House could fail to appreciate as highly as his hon. Friend the great merits of Captain M'Clure; for it was that gallant officer's perseverance, courage, and daring, that
 2246
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that his hon. Friend (Mr. Wilson) had already stated that he would put himself in communication with the hon. Gentleman who moved the question for the purpose of nominating the Members of the Committee in the usual way.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that what he meant to have said was this: that he thought it would be right for a regulation to be made by which, as it was rightly stated by his hon. Friend (Mr. Headlam), it should be optional with the officer to determine in his lifetime whether, in the event of his falling in action, the family should receive the allowances or pensions, whatever they were, now given by the regulation; or whether, in lieu of that, they should receive the value of his
 2274
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the Motion of my hon. Friend is only one part of a large and difficult question, because it is obvious it connects itself directly with the question which has been much discussed in this House and elsewhere, whether
 2270 2271 2272 l. l. l. 2273
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  said, the Act of 1835 had been a failure, and ought to be got rid of, for it inflicted great injustice on large numbers of persons not only among the wealthy, but the poor.
 2279
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  said, he had alluded to the Bishop of St. David's and other prelates for the purpose of showing that they did not recognise the religious objections to this measure, and not to prove that they were in favour of the particular measure before them. The Bishop of St. David's, he was informed,
 2281
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he should vote against the Amendment, for he thought that, if the Bill were carried at all, it ought to contain the retrospective clause, otherwise great confusion would be created; for, take the case of a gentleman who had married his wife's sister since the Act of 1835, the Amendment would not legalise that marriage, and, if the gentleman wished to continue his connection with the family, he might leave this lady and marry another sister, his marriage with whom, after the passing of this Act, would be perfectly legal. This was was the way in which the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir F. Thesiger) proposed to legislate for the peace of families.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, when the Act of 1835 was brought into the House of Lords it did not contain a clause declaring marriages with a deceased wife's sister illegal in future, and in the debate which afterwards took place upon it a clause to that effect was inserted as an afterthought. That Act had a retrospective operation in respect to marriages which had already taken place, and so the present Bill ought to have. It was in fact the  ex post facto
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it was his belief that such was the effect of the Bill as it stood.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  concurred in the opinion of the hon. Member for North Lancaster (Mr. Heywood), that in the one case the first marriage, and in the other case the second marriage, ought to stand.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he must refer to his previous answer: as he understood the question then put to him, it was this—Supposing a man contracted a marriage with a wife's sister, which under the existing law was invalid, and then contracted a marriage with a wife's niece, which was also invalid, which marriage ought to stand? And, in that case, he said the first marriage ought to hold good. But, supposing a man had contracted a marriage which under the existing law was invalid, and subsequently another marriage—which was valid? Then he said the second marriage ought to hold good.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he thought the case of a man marrying two sisters, both of them being still living, was provided for by the words in the second clause applying only to such marriages "as shall be void or voidable by reason only of the affinity of the parties thereto."
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, as some doubt seemed to exist as to the interpretation of the clause, he was anxious that his opinion should be clearly understood. He would suppose two cases. In the first, a man marries the sister of his deceased wife, but subsequently, taking advantage of the state of the law, he repudiates her, and marries her niece. Well, with regard to that case, he had no hesitation in saying that the first of the two marriages ought to stand, both parties being in an equally false position—the wife's sister and the wife's niece. In the second case, a man marries the sister of his deceased wife, and then, laying her aside, he contracts a marriage with a person whom by law he could marry. Well, there he had equally no hesitation in saying that it was the second marriage that was the valid one, for the wife had acquired rights under the existing law.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL,  in reply, said, that the effect was that no marriage should be void or voidable on account of affinity alone, but that this clause would not protect a marriage which was in other respects informal. The clause related only to objections founded on affinity.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he thought that all cases involving the solemnisation of the rites of matrimony would do so; but on that point a question Might arise with respect to the very marriages that might now be celebrated on the Continent—namely, whether a marriage between English subjects, contracted and celebrated in Denmark, according to the laws of that country, could be brought within the operation of the retrospective clauses of this Bill. Supposing the law of Scotland, whereby such marriages were illegal, to remain unaltered, if two persons so related, coming from Scotland, solemnised a marriage in England, it would be legal here, but whether, if they returned, it would be legal in Scotland, was a question that remained to be decided.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that they had now entered on a clause in respect to which a great many difficulties had been suggested, which difficulties should have his best attention. He should now move that the Chairman report progress.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, the Committee would be insane to look for guidance to the precedents of such an era as that to which the hon. Gentleman had referred, when Parliament acted at the bidding of a bloody and capricious despot—[Mr. HEYWOOD: Edward VI.?]—then, of a Council of bloody and capricious despots. They might just as well act upon the precedent of that gigantic invasion of private rights, the seizure of the property of monasteries. But the precedent adduced by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Heywood) did not answer his purpose, for it was no reply to the argument of his (Lord R. Cecil's) hon. and learned Friend (Sir F. Thesiger) that the rights of parties would be prejudiced by retrospective legislation. A man who, being next in succession to an entailed estate, and relying upon the consistency of Parliament, had looked forward to the enjoyment of that estate, ought not, without warning, to be deprived of his just hopes. This Bill was regarded by many persons as a private Bill introduced for the benefit of a few. That view might be unfounded, but what a handle would be given to the scandal if its enactments were made retrospective? Those who had violated the law had done so wilfully, they belonged to the educated and wealthy classes, and it was, therefore, just that their children should be bastardised. They had of late heard much about the influence of the aristocratic and the wealthy classes in the Government of this country, and although he did not believe the charges which had been made against those classes, how strongly would they be corroborated, if Parliament, in a matter the most sacred with which legislation could deal, did that for the wealthy violators of the law which they would never think of doing for the poor?
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, it was his intention to move certain Amendments, the effect of which would be to do away with the retrospective operation of the Bill. From the date of the Act of 1835 until the present time, marriages of this description were positively prohibited by the law, and were declared to be null and void. He considered that nothing could be more dangerous than the principle which would be established by this Bill, which sought to legalise the marriages of those parties who had knowingly violated the law. In all cases in which parties had, through ignorance or inadvertence, violated the law the Legislature had interposed for their relief, but on no occasion had it legalised and sanctioned acts committed against the provisions of an Act of Parliament. Wilful transgressors of the law were not entitled to the protection of Parliament, but it was now sought to give this Bill a retrospective effect on behalf of parties who had wilfully violated the law. One person in speaking of this had said that he knew he was running counter to the Act of Parliament, but that if he had committed a religious or moral wrong he could not be absolved from it by the repealing of the Act. Another person denied that an Act of Parliament could either create or annul a moral obligation. In the present case they then had persons who by their own confessions had contracted marriages, well knowing them to be prohibited by law, coming before Parliament and saying, "though we have deliberately and knowingly violated the law, yet we ask you to interpose for our pro-
 2275 2276 2277
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, his object, as he had previously stated, was to prevent the retrospective operation of the Bill; he should now move the second Amendment of which he had given notice. He entreated some one to give satisfactory information as to what would be the effect of the clause under the circumstances suggested by his right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole). They ought not to legislate in the dark. They ought to understand, and at present he did not understand, what would be the effect of a marriage which had taken place with a deceased wife's sister, and a subsequent marriage either with a deceased wife's niece, or with another sister, or with any other person. He wanted to know what would be the effect of this clause upon those marriages; whether the first was to be the lawful marriage and the children legitimate, or the second was to be the lawful marriage and the children legitimate? Until some explanation was given as to the condition of such parties he thought the Committee were hardly in a position to legislate at all in this matter.
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, the argument used by the noble Lord went to show more strongly than anything he had heard that they should abstain from legislating on this question altogether.
 2282
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, the nature of the whole of his Amendments was to prevent the retrospective action of the Bill, to which he certainly felt very strong and conscientious objections, considering it to be a violation of a very important principle. He was therefore desirous of preventing the passing of the Bill by using every fair and legitimate means, but he did not deem it becoming in him, after the determination of the
 2292
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, that the difficulty was whether those words, "founded only on affinity," would apply only to the two particular cases.
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, he wished to point out to the Committee the difficulty in which it was placed. He found by the second clause of the Bill that no marriage which had been or should be celebrated at any place between a man and his deceased wife's sister or her niece should hereafter be voidable or void. Now cases had occurred where a man had married after the decease of his wife, first, her sister, and then her niece; and supposing that by the first marriage of the latter marriages a man had six daughters, all coparceners to the estate; but by the second, that with the niece, a son and heir-at-law—would they tell him which of those marriages was to be declared valid?
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, if that was the intention of the framers of the Bill, it was not expressed in its provisions. It appeared to him it was impossible to have more striking illustrations of the evil of giving to the law a retrospective operation than in the variety of opinions which had been expressed during the debate, and the inextricable difficulties which would evidently arise. It was proposed by the Bill to render lawful marriages with a deceased wife's sister which had taken place since 1835; and, of course, if those marriages were rendered lawful, the children of them were all legitimate. Various instances had occurred of persons who, having married their deceased wife's sister, had subsequently married some other per-
 2286
 MR. G. BUTT  said, that as he understood the Bill, it would give validity to marriages which had hitherto taken place, which by the existing law were illegal, and therefore legitimatise the offspring of those marriages. Let the Committee consider for a moment how much mischief that might give rise to. Under the existing law many persons entitled to real property as tenants in tail might have disposed of their rights; but if the offspring of these marriages were legitimatised, it would dispossess purchasers of those rights, the fourth clause only securing them to the persons who were actually in possession of the estate. So also with respect to personal property, and interest of every kind. He could not but look upon the retrospective clauses as extremely objectionable, and by their adoption they would probably do more injustice to innocent parties than they would by their rejection to those for whose benefit the Bill was ostensibly framed. He therefore felt it his duty to vote for every Motion which would have the effect of retarding the measure.
 MR. BAILLIE  said, that by the last clause the Bill was not to apply to Scotland, in consequence of which many Scotch Members had given their support to the measure. He wished to inquire of the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Attorney General) whether the marriage of a Scotchman in England with an Englishwoman would not bring the case within the operation of the retrospective clauses.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, it was clear that no progress could be made in Committee that day, and the only object was to advance the Bill a stage without opposition.
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth (Mr. Collier) had erroneously characterised the Act of 1835 as a retrospective Act. It was in no sense a retrospective Act, for it simply had for its object to put an end to a doubtful state of things as to whether a marriage of the kind in question was a marriage or not. The course of legislation hitherto on this subject was to refuse to interfere with marriages with a deceased wife's sister, and to leave them to be interpreted according to the ecclesiastical law; and the present Bill was a departure from that course, which he thought was uncalled for, inasmuch as the feeling of society, as he contended, was undeniably opposed to marriages of this sort.
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, he felt bound to defer to the legal opinion of the hon. and learned Member for Reading (Mr. Keating), and, therefore, would introduce the words "lawfully intermarried" into the third clause.
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, in his opinion, in the first case the first marriage ought to be valid, and in the second case the second marriage.
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, cases had occurred of some persons among the poorer classes who had married the wife's sister, became tired of her, repudiated her and her children, and married some other person. In those cases, whether the second marriage was with the wife's niece or another sister, or whom they pleased, he thought the first marriage ought to be valid.
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, he supposed it was precisely the same as bigamy.
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, he could not, of course, agree to the Amendments proposed by the hon. and learned Gentleman. There was a direct precedent for the retrospective operation of this Bill. In the reign of Henry VIII. the marriage of priests was absolutely forbidden by Act of Parliament, and made punishable with death. The Protestant religion, however, was gaining ground at that time; and in the reign of his son Edward VI. the Act 2nd and 3rd  Edward Edward 2278
 MR. VANCE  said, he objected to proceeding with the measure at a quarter to six o'clock, when it was impossible to discuss it properly, especially as notice had been given of several important Amendments. He should move that the House go into Committee on the Bill that day week.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to inquire the effect of the words in the clause "by reason only of the affinity of the parties." The clause enacted that no marriage which had been or should be celebrated between a man and his deceased wife's sister or niece should be void or voidable by reason of the affinity of the parties, or on account of any canonical or other objection or impediment founded only on such affinity. He did not know whether that would not have the effect of setting up a marriage contracted informally. There
 2291
 MR. HENLEY  said, he considered it important that the Committee should have the opinion of the Attorney General, whether the intention of the Bill was really such as the right hon. Member (Mr. Walpole) had stated, to legalise marriages which, being illegal, had been repudiated, and bastardise the issue of persons lawfully married. The case was how fairly before them, and he should like to hear from the Attorney General if it were intended that a woman, married upon the faith of the law of the land, making a previous marriage of her husband null and void, was, by this prospective enactment, to be declared a prostitute and her children bastards?
 MR. HENLEY  said, it was all very well for the hon. Member to advise them to go on, but he (Mr. Henley) wanted to know where he was going to. It was said this
 2288
 MR. HENLEY  believed that in an assemblage of women this Bill would have no chance, and that in an assemblage of men a Bill to legalise the marriage of a woman with two brothers would not meet with approval. He thought the argument, that Parliament should consider the position of the innocent children of these marriages was equally applicable to the children of persons who had been guilty of bigamy, and he would venture to say, for one person born of these marriages there were twenty born of marriages where there were either more wives or more husbands than one. He believed it would be most mischievous to give the Bill a retrospective operation, and should, therefore, support the Amendment.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he was extremely sorry that any further opposition was to be given to this Bill, which he considered was one very much required, and one which would confer great advantage upon the mercantile community.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he could instance an actual Case of a man who had married in succession three sisters, in which it would appear from the present Bill the third was alone to be valid. It appeared to him that the Bill in this respect proceeded upon no principle at all.
 MR. NAPIER  said, that some persons thought that these marriages were prohibited by the Divine law, while others objected to them on social grounds. The Bishop of St. David's, at all events, voted against a Bill on this subject in 1851.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he quite agreed that this was a question of principle, but he could not help expressing his astonishment at hearing the Bishop of St. David's quoted as an authority in favour of the Bill, when, during a debate upon a similar measure in another place, that right rev. prelate had said that, although it might afford accommodation to a number of individuals, it would introduce distrust, jealousy, and alarm into many families, and he could not therefore accept the responsibility of agreeing to it. The Bishop of Cork, too, was set down as favourable to this Bill, when his name appeared in the list of Non-Contents against the previous measure. An excellent friend of his, who supported a former Bill, did not know at the time that the Reformed Churches had pronounced against these marriages. These were specimens of the misconceptions that prevailed in consequence of the statements put forth by the supporters of the Bill. The law of England had been stated by Mr. Baron Parke before 1835, when delivering the unanimous opinion of the Judicial Committee of Privy Council to be that these marriages were null and void, and incestuous and illegal by Divine and human law. The Act of 1835 did not make these marriages valid in future, but only said that those which had been contracted should not be annulled, and in so far as they had before been incestuous and illegal by the law of the land so they remained. Lord Campbell stated that there were more cases of bigamy than of these marriages. Bigamy was a felony; it was committed in spite of the law; but should Parliament therefore repeal the Statute against parties who contracted bigamy? Both Lord Campbell and Lord Brougham stated that Lord Lyndhurst's Act had produced no new law whatever, and when he was asked to consent to repeal the Act of 1835, as a premium to those who had violated the law, he must declare that he would not be a party to any such legislation.
 MR. HEYWORTH  said, he could see no obscurity at all in the Bill.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he hoped the House would allow the Bill to proceed to Committee that day. There would be ample time for hon. Members to bring forward their objections.
 MR. COLLIER  said, the cases supposed might be possible, but certainly were not probable cases. With respect to the marriage with a deceased wife's sister, and subsequently with her niece, he would say, the second marriage not being one which could be lawfully contracted before this Act, the first would be the valid one. As to hardships to possible children of pos-
 2287
 MR. COLLIER  said he should oppose the Amendment, which would have the effect of invalidating only those marriages which had taken place between 1835 and 1855. After all, it would not affect the parents, because they might be legally married the day after the Bill was passed; but it might make the elder children of a family illegitimate, while the younger children were legitimate. The Act of 1835 was retrospective, because it prevented ecclesiastical suits from being instituted to invalidate the marriages contracted up to the time of its passing. This question was not, however, a question of precedent, but principle. If marriages of this kind were improper, they ought to be altogether prohibited; if they were proper, let Parliament legalise them—but let them not
 2280
 MR. HILDYARD  said that, according to the hon. and learned Attorney General's statement, if a man married his deceased wife's sister, and afterwards his deceased wife's niece, the operation of the law would be to make the former marriage valid. They were therefore going by a retrospective enactment to marry a man against his will, and, to aggravate the injury, they were going to marry him to the old woman and take him away from the young one. Assuming that a man had married his deceased wife's sister, that they had no children, and that, living unhappily together, they had said, "This marriage is not valid in law, we cannot live comfortably together, and, therefore, let us separate"—assuming, too, that after their separation the man married his deceased wife's niece, with whom he lived happily and by whom he had children, what would be the operation of the law as interpreted by the hon. and learned Attorney General? Why, that they would separate
 2290
 MR. HILDYARD  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had advanced another principle for the adoption of the Committee, which was just as objectionable as the one which he (Mr. Hildyard) had protested against. A man who, by contracting a particular marriage, had acted in direct defiance of the law of the land was to be told that such marriage was valid. He did not wish to speak rashly or with asperity, but he must say that he was astonished that lawyers should rise up in that House and base an argument upon such a supposition.
 MR. LOWE  said, he must beg to explain that what he said was not that it was a valid contract, but that those who had entered into it should be estopped from pleading its invalidity for their own purposes.
 MR. LOWE  said, he was prepared to answer the question which had been put by the hon. Gentleman. The man in the case he had put had chosen to contract a marriage with his deceased wife's sister, and he held it to be the duty of the Committee to say that such marriage should be valid. They did not want to marry a man against his will, but merely that he should be estopped from saying that such marriage was not legal. In the case of the young and interesting lady alluded to by the hon. aud learned Member, his answer was that the law would leave her in precisely the same situation in which she was now placed, neither better nor worse. Such a person was not a legal wife now, and would not be then. They did not do her tardy justice, but all the justice which she could expect.
 MR. LOWE  said, he thought the principle upon which the majority of the Committee wished to legislate was perfectly plain, and the only difficulty arose from hon. Gentlemen opposite wishing to discuss another object than that intended by the Bill. The object of the Bill was one of indulgence, and intended to make legal and valid certain marriages which now were void. The cases supposed by hon. Gentlemen opposite might be provided for by a clause which could be proposed upon the bringing up the Report, but he could see no reason for adjourning the Committee upon that account. The question of priority might be settled at a future stage. There must be individual hardships in all cases, but there was no reason why the progress of the measure should be now stayed.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that he understood his hon. and learned Friend to repeat precisely what he said before. It was, however, right that the Committee should know exactly the intention of the Bill, and
 2289 status
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that what the hon. and learned Gentleman called "possible cases" were the very cases which the Bill was intended to meet.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he wished to know in case where a man had married his wife's sister, and then her niece, which of the children should be deemed legitimate? The Attorney General had given an opinion that the children of the first marriage would be legitimate, but the second not; and upon that point some further information would be desirable, for, if that were so, where were the arguments of the supporters of the Bill about the hardships upon innocent children? Unless some better explanation were given he thought Parliament would be involving itself in endless confusion by such legislation.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the question he had put had not been answered.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he hoped that the Committee would not pass a retrospective law to enable parties who had violated an Act of Parliament to take advantage of their disobedience of the law. The Act of 1835 was, in the true sense of the word, anything but a retrospective law. The key to the meaning of the Act of
 2283 ipso facto
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that they would
 2285
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that there was
 2284
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he wanted to know what became of the second marriage?
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  said, he should now move the adjournment of the debate. The Bill was one which seriously affected the mercantile interests, and it ought not to be allowed to pass through Committee
 2293 pro formâ.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he hoped the House would agree that the Speaker should leave the Chair, and so advance the Bill a stage. It did not necessarily follow that the whole of the clauses would be considered, and the objections might be reserved.
 MR. H. S. KEATING  said, he thought the difficulties suggested by the hon. and learned Gentleman would be obviated by the introduction of the word "lawfully" before the word "intermarry" in the third clause. He considered the argument that because all such acts could not be legitimised none should was a bad one, and to get rid of any doubts which might exist, he could suggest some such plan as he proposed.
 MR. ROBERT PHILLIMORE  said, he thought the Committee ought not to proceed to deal with a clause of such immense moral importance without better information. The hon. Gentleman who introduced the measure had placed a different interpretation upon the clause to that enunciated by the hon. and learned Attorney General. He (Mr. Phillimore) should move that the Chairman do Report progress.
 MR. ROBERT PHILLIMORE  said, he was perfectly certain no Court in England would voluntarily commit an act of such gross injustice as would virtually be committed if the views of the hon. Member (Mr. Heywood) were adopted.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said he had repeatedly voted in favour of the repeal of the Act of 1835, as desirable for the sake of religion and morality. He should have much pleasure in supporting the mover of the Bill in maintaining this part of it, as well as in carrying through the general principle of the measure.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he begged to ask the right hon. Baronet the Chief Commissioner of Works, in reference to a Return presented on the 19th day of June, showing the proposed extension of buildings connected with the New Palace, Westminster, first, whether he had sanctioned the plans and estimates for 280,272 l. l. l.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he had two questions which he wished to put to the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for War. The first related to a subject to which he had six times previously called the attention of the House since February last. His first question was, whether any arrangements had been made for payment of the arrears due to those sick or wounded soldiers who had returned from the Crimea? And the second was, whether it was intended to place invalid soldiers on board the hospital-ship  Britannia
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he begged to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, whether he would lay upon the table of the House the new regulation for the army, whereby officers are entitled to bequeath the regulation value of their commissions under certain circumstances; also, whether the noble Lord would lay upon the table the new warrant, under which pensions to officers' widows were to be increased?
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that on the 4th of May last year the House ordered that 120 additional children should be admitted to this establishment. On the 20th of September last he received from the right hon. Gentleman the late Secretary at War a letter, in which he stated that he had approved of the plans and specifications for the erection of buildings, to be completed at the end of the last or the commencement of the present year, when the 120 children would be admitted. Ten days ago he (Colonel North) went to see what was being done, and there was positively hardly a brick above the ground. He wished to know whose fault it was that the orders of the House had not been carried into effect?
 ADMIRAL JONES  said, he was convinced no Bill would satisfy the hon. Member for Roscommon, and those who acted with him, unless it was one which included the famous four points of the Tenant Right Association of Dublin; and such a measure would take away all the property from the landlords in Ireland. ["No, no!"] He contended that it would deprive them of the control they now possessed over their own property, and give it to other persons.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland had alleged sufficient reasons for striking out that part of the clause which would give tenants the power to call on their landlords to improve waste lands, or would enable them to improve such lands at their landlords' expense; but there was this additional reason, that in some cases the reclamation of waste lands cost more than the fee simple of fruitful land. He hoped, therefore, the Government would persist in their determination.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he must protest against this exceptional legislation for Ireland. For he agreed with the noble Lord who had just spoken, that the Bill now before them was based upon false principles, and he could see nothing in the state of matters in Ireland differing from that of England, either with regard to the possession of property, the tenure of property, or the letting of property. If any one
 2323
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he should oppose the Motion, for the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland, the Clerk of the Ordnance, and several other hon. Gentlemen opposite, had voted against a similar one last year.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he felt the Bill itself to be a violation of all existing contracts. The Amendment had for its object to respect existing agreements, and he should support it.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he considered the Bill, so far as the prospective clauses were concerned, to be objectionable, but it was doubly so when in a certain way it tended to take a retrospective character, and to affect contracts which the parties who had entered into them were desirous to maintain. He should support the Amendment.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, he thought the Committee would not have any. The Bill gave the tenant the power of calling on the landlord to provide farm buildings, and in the event of his not doing so to provide them themselves. These buildings when erected by the tenant were in the nature of permanent improvements; and as such became valuable property to the landlord.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he wished to move the insertion of certain words in this clause which were rendered necessary by the previous decision of the Committee. His object was to provide in cases where tenants held under leases of lives, or for a term of years, and had been amply recompensed for the improvements they had made by a continued enjoyment of their benefit, that landlords who had been kept out of their land for a number of years should not, in addition thereto, be afterwards required to pay for such improvements.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he should now move that the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that, as one of the Commissioners for the management of the Hospital, he would beg to state that the building referred to was nearly ready for roofing. No addition could be made to the number of children admitted until it was completed, as it would be obviously unwise to overcrowd the existing buildings.
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he would beg, also, to ask the noble Lord whether a grant of money would be necessary to carry into effect the increased pensions to which the hon. Member had referred?
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  said, he should support the Motion of the hon. Member for Roscommon (Mr. French), believing there was no subject more deserving attention and legislative provision than that of encouraging the reclamation of waste lands in Ireland. He believed that if the Secretary for Ireland left out that great principle from the Bill, it would be much better to abandon the Bill altogether.
 MR. OLIVEIRA  said, he begged to ask the hon. Under Secretary for War, whether arrangements were being made at the Royal Military Asylum, Chelsea, for receiving the 120 additional children of soldiers on foreign service, promised by the late right hon. Secretary at War, on the 5th day of May, 1854?
 MR. E. BALL  said, the question seemed to strike at the root of obligations and at the root of good faith. He thought the Amendment was necessary, and should give it his support.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he did not object
 2330
 MR. HORSMAN  said, the proposed Amendment was opposed to the principle of the Bill, and therefore he could not assent to it.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he would now move the Amendment on this clause, of which he had given notice.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he entirely concurred in the importance of the question of encouraging the reclamation of waste lands in Ireland, but the question was not whether the reclamation of waste lands ought to be encouraged in Ireland, but whether it was one of that class of improvements which ought to be fairly brought into the Bill now under discussion. It was thought desirable to insert in the Bill only that class of improvements concerning the compensation for which there could be little or no difference of opinion. It had been said that this class of compensation had been inserted in previous Bills; but none of those Bills had received the sanction of the Legislature, and the Government wished to frame such a measure as might pass.
 MR. FRENCH  said, he should take the sense of the Committee upon the question of the withdrawal of this important provision, and he regretted that the Secretary for Ireland should have proposed its omission after the repeated admissions which had been made of the practicability and expediency of reclaiming waste land, and the promise which the Government of the noble Lord the Member for London had held out on the subject.
 MR. FRENCH  said, he fully concurred in what had fallen from both of his hon. Friends, but it was quite evident that their party had no force in that House at all equal to the majority which could be obtained at the call of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston). It was his opinion that the Government were not at all anxious to carry this Bill. While the noble Lord said he was prepared to send up the measure to the House of Lords to be there carried, he at the same time remarked that many parts of it were objectionable and inadmissible in principle. Under such circumstances, he did not think it advisable to continue to divide the Committee upon those propositions, but to rest satisfied with entering their protest against the conduct of the Government upon this subject.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, the Committee having decided the question of compensation, the question that remained was, whether that compensation should be granted when there was no contract or lease. The exigencies referred to by the Amendment were provided for by a lease.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he was of opinion that, whether the reclamation of waste lands was a desirable object or not, it was not one which ought to be included in the present Bill. It could not be denied that the object of the Bill was to provide that, in cases where a landlord had not placed upon the farm he let all the appliances necessary for its cultivation, it should be optional for the tenant to call upon him to provide them, and, in case of his not doing so, the tenant might undertake the improvements himself, or be entitled to ultimate compensation for them. But the improvement of waste lands could not by any means be considered as coming within the scope of the Bill now under consideration; and, even if it did, the machinery provided by the present measure would be insufficient for the purpose. In the first place, who was to determine what were waste lands; and next, who was to estimate the possible outlay in rendering them fit for arable purposes? The foundation of the Bill was, that the landlord should be called upon to execute improvements; but, in the case of reclaiming waste lands, no limit of time was fixed by which it could be determined when the tenant's right to execute the improvements himself began. It might be quite right to compensate a tenant who, by dint of daily exertion and skill, brought unprofitable lands into beneficial use, and he would not hesitate to support a measure intended and adapted for that purpose; but, believing that the present Bill was framed for a different object, he must object to the clause as only tending to create litigation between landlord and tenant in Ireland.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he must refer the hon. and learned Member to the schedule, where he would find that the proposed improvements were to be described, and an estimate of their cost given. That was the estimate to which he had alluded. He advised the hon. and learned Member, before he undertook to lecture him (Mr. I. Butt) on his reading of the Bill, to take care to read it himself.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he considered the Bill was a totally new Bill ["No, no."] It was totally different to the original Bill, and he therefore objected to proceeding with the measure at that hour.
 MR. M'CANN  said, he would beg to remind the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. George) there were gentlemen in and out of that House who wished for such a clause as this introduced into the Bill, and who had as much wealth and property in the country as the hon. and learned Gentleman and those who acted with him.
 MR. BRADY  said, that every one who had been in Ireland must see the necessity of adopting such a provision as this. He knew from experience that the removal of stones was a great improvement to the land in many parts of Ireland.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he would beg to move the insertion of words the object of which was that leases under seal or agreements in writing existing at the time of the passing of the Bill, should be respected, and that the provisions of the Bill as to prospective improvements should not come into operation in such cases until after the leases or agreements were expired, unless by mutual arrangement between the landlord and tenant.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he had considered that his Amendment applied to all contracts or leases existing at the time of the passing of the Bill; however, he would add to his Amendment words expressive of that intention.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he would accede to the suggestion.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he would now move to insert after the words "like improvements," the following words:—"or in any case where a special agreement, in writing, with respect to the same, or the costs thereof, or the property therein, shall have been made by the landlord and tenant respectively, otherwise than in accordance with such special agreement."
 MR. GEORGE  said, he considered that the course taken by the Government, with reference to the omission of a portion of the clause, had not been capriciously taken.
 2314
 MR. JAMES MACGREGOR  said, the Bill was a most important Bill, affecting all the commercial world, and his opinion was that it would be the best course for Mr. Speaker to leave the chair, and then for some Member of the Committee to explain what had been done, and the object and purposes of the Bill. If the Bill passed, the conviction on his mind was, that greater frauds in bills of exchange would take place than at present did take place.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he had a strong desire to hear the Attorney and Solicitor Generals for Ireland give expression to
 2313
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he would beg of the Attorney General for Ireland to give some explanation in reply to the charges which had been made against him.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, the law, as laid down by the hon. and learned Gentleman, did not apply to his proposition. The Roman law was that, if a person let a house, and it was not found to serve the purpose for which it was let, he must repair it; but it never could mean that, if a man let a field without a house, the person taking the field could compel him to build a house upon it.
 MR. VANCE  said, this was almost a new Bill, and if Mr. Speaker left the chair it would raise the whole question, and of necessity create a debate. He thought that at that late hour (half-past twelve o'clock) it would be inconvenient to go on with the Bill, which could be with more advantage discussed at the morning sitting.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he hoped that what was proposed would be acceded to, and that Mr. Speaker would be allowed to leave the chair.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he objected to this clause upon the ground that the expenses of recovering the rates would thus be increased. It would be better, he considered, to make one rate, including the poor rate, as was done in St. George's, Hanover Square.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he thought they ought to act upon the recommendation of the Select Committee of which the hon. and learned Serjeant was a Member, and which, after a full consideration of the question, came to the conclusion that all improvements in the soil ought to be made the subject of express contract.
 MR. NAPIER  said, this Bill was composed of two Bills, and only one part of it was his, and the part they were now discussing was not his. With regard to the reclaiming of waste lands he had stated the day before, and he now repeated, that, in his opinion, the only way to carry out the reclamation of waste lands was by contract between landlord and tenant. It was proposed by the provision which they were now discussing to work out those improvements, independent of express contracts, and although he had for some time been of opinion that it could be effected by the machinery of a Bill, experience, and the opinions of many gentlemen opposed to it had convinced him that any attempt to do so would be a failure, and therefore he would support the proposal for striking out the words in question.
 MR. NAPIER  said, the effect of the alterations that had been made was to create one law for England, another for Scotland, and another for Ireland, whereas the opinion of the Commissioners was that there should only be one uniform law.
 MR. BLAND  said, he fully concurred in the suggestion of the hon. Member for Roscommon (Mr. French), thinking it most important, in a national point of view, that waste lands should be included in the compensation provided by the Bill.
 MR. MONTAGU CHAMBERS  said, he begged to ask what would be done with the Inns of Court, and other extra-parochial places?
 MR. M'MAHON  said, that the words proposed to be left out had been objected to, because it would be difficult to ascertain how much of the waste lands had been reclaimed, but nothing could be more easy, as at the expiration of the lease the tenant would serve a notice on his landlord, who could go and see how much land had been reclaimed, and there could be nothing more natural than that the tenant should be compensated for the expenses he had incurred in reclaiming it. The noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) had said that the contracts between landlord and tenant ought to be left free, but for a great number of years they had had a Parliament of landlords passing statutes in favour of the landlord and against the tenant, and it was now incumbent on the House of Commons, by some such attempt as the present, to endeavour to check the ill effects of that legislation.
 MR. P. O'BRIEN  said, that as a large section of the Irish tenantry, through their representatives, declared that it was important that the principle involved in the clause should be carried out, it was idle for hon. Members to oppose the clause on the ground that it would be inoperative. If this species of cultivation was unprofitable, it would not be undertaken; or if undertaken, there could be no claim made on the part of the tenant against the landlord, and therefore there was no necessity for the Committee striking these words out of the clause.
 MR. MALINS  said, he understood that the Bill included a claim for compensation for improvements made in pursuance of an express contract, whereas the objection of
 2328
 MR. MALINS  said that in reference to an observation which had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General for Ireland (Mr. J. D. FitzGerald) he did not mean to contend that to give the power to a tenant to force the landlord to pay for a house he might choose to build on his land was a violation of the English constitution, but he maintained that it was a violation of the rights of property.
 MR. MALINS  said, he considered the question was of such great importance, affecting such great interests, that it ought only to be passed after the most serious discussion. He thought, at that late hour, it would be unwise and improper to discuss the Bill.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, this was not a new Bill, and he hoped the House would not object to going into Committee, in order that hon. Members might hear what had been done with respect to the Bill.
 MR. V. SCULLY  said, the Amendment, as worded, would not have the effect which its hon. Mover intended. He should oppose the Amendment, for if it were adopted they might as well get rid of the Bill altogether.
 MR. V. SCULLY  said, he thought that the Bill was in some respects a reasonable
 2315
 MR. KEOGH  said, the danger apprehended by the hon. and learned Member who had last addressed them did not exist. The 5th and 6th clauses gave the option of refusal to make the improvements in question to the landlord, and the case contemplated was one in which the tenant ought to make these improvements himself. Under no circumstances would the landlord be called on to pay anything unless he resumed possession of the land; in that case it was only just and fair that he should pay for these valuable improvements.
 MR. KEOGH  said, he must oppose the Amendment, which he considered to be quite unnecessary.
 MR. KIRK  said, he should support the Motion of the hon. Member for Roscommon (Mr. French) for he contended that it was an extraordinary thing that the subject of compensation for the reclamation of waste lands should be excluded from the Bill, and more especially as it was included in the former measure.
 MR. MAGAN  said, he was so much dissatisfied with the conduct of the Government upon this measure that he thought it would be better to move that the Chairman report progress and ask leave to sit again.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he should support the Motion, on the ground that tenants could not be expected to make improvements if some security of this kind were not given them. He believed that in many parts of England the same tenant-right existed that was proposed by this amendment to be extended to Ireland, and he could see no difficulty whatever in the way of carrying it out.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, an Irish Secretary who had any personal knowledge of Ireland and its resources would not attempt to pass such a mockery of a Tenants' Compensation Bill as one which excluded the reclaiming of bog ground, an improvement more required than any other in that country.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, he must confess himself greatly disappointed by the nature of the Amendments proposed to be introduced by the Government; and, judging from those Amendments, he doubted whether the Government really entertained a sincere wish to have this measure carried into execution. The right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Napier), who had long paid considerable attention to this important subject, told them that he
 2316 2317 2318 l. 2319
 SERJEANT SHEE  said, he must deny that he had ever agreed to anything of the sort, though he did assent to what he could not help. It was of no avail to say, that another part of the Bill enabled compensation for drainage to be provided for by express agreements with the landlords, notwithstanding any difficulties which might be caused by the settlement of the estate. To render this operative it was necessary to have provisions in the earlier part of the Bill, such as he proposed. The only way to induce the landlords to make such agreements was to show them that, if they did not make them, the tenants would be by law empowered to improve the estates without their consent, and that, after having so improved, the tenants could not be evicted without compensation.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, he would now beg to propose after line 5 to insert the following words, "The durable improvement of land by clearing away rocks and stones." This was a provision which was inserted by the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of
 2326
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, he would now move the insertion in the same clause of the words "The main draining, or thorough draining of land, or the improvement of it by irrigation." This provision had been inserted in all the Land Improvement Bills which had been brought before
 2325
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, that the arrangement which the hon. and learned Gentleman denounced as a violation of the rights of property was the law in every country in the world, except in those places where, as in England, it was the custom for the landlord to erect the necessary buildings himself. It was the law in every country where the civil law was in force. This question had been argued as if it was one that lay between landlord and tenant only, whereas the real point at issue was whether it would be good for the whole people of Ireland. In the best circumstanced districts of Ireland 43 per cent of the inhabited houses were mud cabins with only one room, and the people were living like pigs. Was this a state of things that ought to continue? The object of the Bill was to preserve the rights of property, not to destroy them, and, at the same time, amend a state of things that was truly disgraceful. If they continued the present reckless system, it would be impossible to maintain the rights of property in Ireland.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that this was not the proper time to explain that part of the measure. He would promise that all the amendments or additions which it was intended to make to the Bill should be printed and placed in the hands of Members on Saturday, or, at latest, on Monday morning.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that the object of the clause and the amendment he proposed was to prevent particular districts from being taxed for sewers when nothing had been spent in those districts, and therefore it was proposed to have, in addition to the general rate, a special district rate.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he must beg to explain, that his object was to enable the local authorities to collect the rates at different times, if they thought proper, so as not to bear so heavily upon the poor ratepayer.
 MR. DUFFY  said, that the noble Lord at the head of the Government recommended the supporters of the measure to assent to a compromise; why, they had been doing
 2324
 MR. DUFFY  said, he could not concur with his hon. Friend in the course he proposed. On the contrary, he thought that there was a grave responsibility upon their shoulders to use the little power they possessed in resisting to the utmost the objectionable measures of the Government. This Bill could be carried at any time if the Irish Members determined to reject the blandishments of office and to attend solely to the interests of their unfortunate country. He thought that they ought to divide.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that the reason why the back claims of the soldiers had not been settled was, because the Government were not yet aware of the amount of money due to the men up to the period at which they left the headquarters of their regiments in the Crimea, and they were also not aware of the amount due to the men for the period they were in the hospital at Scutari. These returns had been delayed in consequence of the state of confusion which the accounts of the paymasters in the Crimea had been in. Three months ago peremptory instructions were sent to the paymasters to furnish the required returns, and additional paymasters were also sent out to bring up the arrears. Several lists had been already sent in showing the amounts due; the returns from Scutari were still wanting, but were expected shortly, when all arrears would be filled up before the men were sent to the ship referred to by the hon. Gentleman.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL , in reply, said that fifty additional boys had already been received, and the remainder would be admitted as soon as some buildings now in progress for the reception of the monitors and pupils of the normal school, which was a branch of the establishment, had been completed, which would be at the expiration of about three months.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the proposition for Mr. Speaker to leave the chair was to be understood as involving no progress in the Bill.
 MR. H. S. KEATING  said, he did not wish to prevent full discussion of all the clauses of the Bill, and he trusted that the
 2331
 MR. H. S. KEATING  said, the interpretation clause, as applied to the Amendment, gave rise to serious considerations in connection with the case of reversioners or leases for lives renewable for ever, on what the increased value of property made at this moment a merely nominal rent. It would be hard, indeed, if the reversioner, whose interest might be very small, should be compellable by the tenant to expend large sums of money upon the estate on the return of 5 per cent.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to call attention to the serious importance of authorising, as it was proposed by the words inserted here, the Metropolitan Board of Works to tax any district of the metropolis for the cost of works of drainage, according to their notion of the benefit which the locality would derive from it.
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, he had some apprehension lest, if these rates were demanded along with the poor rate, at one time, the effect might be to disfranchise many of the poorer voters of the metropolis, by calling upon them for a larger sum than could at once be paid. It would be better to levy the poor rate separately.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH,  in reply, said, he must beg the House to distinguish between the two classes of Works referred to in the Return in question:—1st, works indispensable for the completion of the New Palace of Westminster which had received the sanction of the Government, and were in progress; secondly, additional works suggested by Sir Charles Barry as expedient and desirable, but which were not indispensable for the completion of the New Palace, and which had neither been sanctioned by the Government nor commenced. With regard to the first class of works, it had been estimated that the sum required for their completion was 280,000 l. l. l. l.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON , in reply, said, that the other evening he had stated what the intentions of the Government were with regard to this subject—those intentions could only be carried out under a new warrant, which was in preparation, and, as soon as it was ready and duly sanctioned, it should be laid before the House. With regard to the question put by the noble Lord the Member for the East Riding, he could not at present say whether any grant of money would be nenessary, but apprehended that, should it be so, the House would readily give their sanction to such a grant.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, instead of "fighting our battles o'er again," as some hon. Members seem disposed to do, I think we had better confine our attention to the Bill now before us, which is one highly deserving of our consideration. Those who wish to improve the condition of Ireland, and think that this measure contains provisions tending to effect that object, would, in my opinion, act wisest in not insisting upon everything which they may deem conducive to that end, but in endeavouring to shape this Bill in such a manner as would enable it to pass into law, and to pass, too, this year, that Ireland may have the benefit of it without further delay. I cannot, therefore, concur with the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Serjeant Shee) who thinks our best course is to send this Bill up to the House of Lords in a form in which that assembly will reject it, and then to send another Bill up to them the next year, and another again the third year, and so to carry on a continued conflict with the other branch of the Legislature, instead of accomplishing as much good as, in his opinion, and in that of others, it is in our power to do at once. Surely it is better for a man to get a part of what he wishes than to have none at all, and to be always waiting and fighting, and yet achieving no practical result. I quite agree that the improvement of waste lands is an object of great interest and importance to Ireland, although I somewhat differ from those who think that such a result is not only desirable, but practicable; for I own that the operation of cultivating waste lands or cut-away bog lands on any great scale is, in my opinion, not likely to be a very profitable investment of capital. I have tried it myself, and I certainly should not recommend my friends to adopt it with any such anticipation. The cultivation of bog land is best effected by the small cottier, who takes a quarter of an acre next his own dwelling, and, having no capital to expend, goes on digging at it, bringing a basket of lime upon his back
 2320 2321 2322
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he must oppose the Motion in the hopes that the Committee would first get through the clause then under consideration.
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to what he considered a great breach of privilege. He had given notice yesterday of certain questions which he intended to put to the Under Secretary for War. He laid them on the table before the clerk, who made no objection to them, and he had given a copy to the Under Secretary for War. He found that the most important part was omitted in the printed copy of the Votes, and he would take this opportunity of calling the attention of Mr. Speaker to the matter. He believed his notice had not been shown to the right hon. Gentleman, and he was perfectly certain that all he had put on the paper was true. He held in his hand an exact copy of what he put upon the notice paper, and he would read it to the House. He wished to ask a question relative to a letter written by Captain Fitzwygram, and he wished also to express a hope that Captain Fitzwygram would not be ordered abroad, and to ask whether there was any intention to have an inquiry into the conduct of the superior officers and others concerned in the late practical jokes and sham duel between officers of the cavalry depôt at Canterbury. He would now read to the House the letter which he wished to bring under its attention, which was written by Captain Fitzwygram, and given to Cornet Baumgarten, who refused to assent to it—
 "My object in writing to Lord Shaftesbury is to defend the regiment, not to damage your character. If my object can be equally well accomplished without damaging your character I am content. To do this I require three things; first, an admission on your part, without admitting all I have said, that enough had occurred to create a prejudice against you; secondly, an undertaking on your part that Lord Shaftesbury shall withdraw in the House—on explanation by you—his charge that the acts committed were 'gross, disgusting, and filthy, and impossible to occur where the commanding officer was a gentleman and a Christian;' thirdly, a positive undertaking to retire. "T. W. FITZWYGRAM, Captain." 19
 MR. OWEN STANLEY : May I ask whether mine was an irregular or improper question to put?
 MR. OWEN STANLEY : I think the written question that I put into the hon. Gentleman's hands contained that portion of the notice that was omitted.
 COLONEL HARCOURT  said, he begged to inquire whether the Admiralty had received any official intelligence that Lieutenant Geneste, Dr. Easton, and Mr. Sullivan were not killed, as had been at first reported, but were detained as prisoners of war?
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY,  in reply, said, that no further information had been received since the publication of the despatches of Admiral Dundas.
 COLONEL HARCOURT  said, he had received a letter from one of the nearest relatives of Lieutenant Geneste, who, he feared, had been most cruelly murdered, and, with the permission of the House, he would read the letter. It was in the following terms—
 "My dear Sir—As one of your constituents, may I beg that you will put a question to the First Lord of the Admiralty, and inquire whether the authorities of the fleet demanded the bodies of those who were so cruelly murdered at Hango, and desired that they might be delivered up, in order that they might not be left to the brutality of the savage murderers. I ask it as the nearest relative in England of my nephew, Lieutenant Geneste, in whom I have always taken the deepest interest. A more talented, promising young officer was not to be found in Her Majesty's service, and this will be the testimony of all his brother officers who have known him intimately."
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, he could only repeat that no despatches had been received by the Admiralty since those which had been forwarded by Admiral Dundas. Accounts had been published in the newspapers stating that the officers had been only wounded, and were prisoners; but whether that statement was true or not the Admiralty had no means of ascertaining.
 COLONEL HARCOURT  said, the gallant Admiral had not answered his question whether any instructions had been given for the purpose of recovering the bodies of these unfortunate men, or whether they were to be left in the hands of their murderers?
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY : If I understand the hon. and gallant Member rightly, he asks whether any claim has been made for the recovery of the bodies of those officers. No such claim has been made, nor do I think it likely that a boat would be sent in under another flag of truce for such a purpose. The House will, perhaps, permit me to make a few personal remarks having reference to myself. I am one of those who have been in office for a long time, and am prepared to bear those attacks which are made on public men. But a statement was made the day before yesterday in  The Daily News,
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that the state-
 24
 MR. LINDSAY : I rise, Sir, to address the House on this occasion with considerable reluctance. No man is more desirous than I am to see the business of this House carried on with greater rapidity than it now is; and I must apologise for engaging its attention for a short time in reference to a matter wholly personal to myself. But it is a question which I have been forced to bring under the notice of the House, affecting, as it does, my personal honour. My veracity has been called in question in reference to a statement made by me, not in this House but elsewhere. That statement has been noticed in a particular manner in this House, and I was prepared to be called to account for that statement. I am certainly somewhat ignorant of the forms of this House, but during the short time I have been a Member of it I have noticed that hon. Members have been called to account for statements which they have made elsewhere. The noble Lord at the head of the Government only the other day called the hon. Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Layard) to account for a statement made by him out of this House; therefore, I thought that some Member of the Government would take the opportunity of calling me to an account for what I had stated, and which would have enabled me to rise in my place, and give proof of the truth of the statement I had made. I believe, according to the rules of the House, I am not at liberty to refer to what may have occurred in any previous debate, but must confine myself strictly to the question of which I have given notice. But the House will, I trust, allow me in passing just to advert to those personal remarks which were made by an hon. Member in the course of a recent debate. I allude to the remarks which fell from the hon. Mem-
 25 "One of the principal of these volunteers is the hon. Member for Tynemouth, and he comes forward to drive out all the upper classes as bad administrators, and to put in himself as a good one. I find, however, in the records of the police office, that about two years ago that Gentleman was, to use a Bow Street expression, 'had up' for not fulfilling a contract he entered into to convey some poor emigrants, in the ship  Swarthmore, Hansard, 26 l. l. s. s. s. s. l. l. 27 The Times' "Sir Chapman Marshall then retired with Mr. Alderman Copeland and the chief clerk to consider the preliminary objection, and, on returning into Court, Sir Chapman Marshall said, they were of opinion that the 44th section did not apply to the matter; and, as the summons was founded upon it, they must dismiss it. … Mr. Lindsay's conduct, under the circumstances, was of a nature highly honourable to him." Economist "We see with surprise that the conduct of Mr. Lindsay, to which we adverted last week with praise, has not been so favourably viewed by all the passengers on board the ship." Spectator, "Mr. Lindsay, the owner of the vessel which is named after him, has indeed taken a course which fully sustains the character of the British merchant. Understanding that the ship was not perfectly fit for sea, he has recalled it, and has taken upon himself all the consequent expense and loss. He has not limited his liberality to telling his passengers that they might seek passages in other ships at their own expense, and merely 'without prejudice' to their claims upon himself. He has not forced his master to prosecute the voyage in spite of a certificate from the medical officer that disease would inevitably break out within the tropics. He must incur a very large sacrifice by his handsome treatment of the passengers; but that price will probably purchase its full worth to himself." 28 "Sir James Graham insists the  Robert Lowe "And that men be employed to work day and night; in fact, Sir James says he must not be disappointed, the service being most urgent." 29 "—begs to acquaint—,that in consequence of a telegraphic message just received, it is not now intended that the  Robert Lowe l. "Sir, the  Columbian 30 "Sir—In answer to your letter of this day, I am commanded by the Directors of the Transport Service to acquaint you that they cannot spars their officer at Liverpool to proceed to Greenock to survey the  Columbian, l. "No. 8, Austinfriars, June 12. Sir—I was duly favoured with yours of the 9th and 11th instant, in reference to the screw steamship  Columbian. European "JOHN GLADSTONE." 31 "8, Austinfriars, City, May 1. "Dear Sir De Lacy Evans—You mentioned to me a short time since that you were anxious to see sent out some 3,000 horses for the division of the army you commanded in the East, and that, though the horses were ready, the Government over and over again told you they could not find ships. I expressed my suprise to you, and I thought that where there was a will there was surely a way. I referred, and found at the very time the Government were telling you they could not find ships, a friend of mine had in one letter offered to Lord Panmure a magnificent fleet of, I dare say, the finest and swiftest ships in the world, ready in twenty-four hours' notice to convey, at the low rate of some 16 s. s. "It is sad to think of all this perverse—what shall I call it?—perverse imbecility, if not something worse. I spoke to my Friend in the city this morning, and here is another fleet already for your horses at about the same low rates. … They are all ships averaging from 1,200 to 2,100 tons register, and could carry in safety the number of horses affixed to each." 32 33 l. 34 s. s. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. s. 35 "Who steals my purse steals trash; 'tis something, nothing; 'Twas mine, 'tis his, and has been slave to thousands; But he that filches from me my good name, Robs me of that which not enriches him, And makes me poor indeed."
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, that seeing his right hon. Friend (Sir O. Wood) had so completely answered the accusations that had been brought against the Board of Admiralty, he would not, though he had many more matters to state, add one word to the statement which had already been made to the House. He would, however, beg the hon. Member for Tyne-mouth to be careful how he made accusations against absent men, one of them not a member of the House (Captain Milne), to whom the transport service was at that time intrusted, and statements such as he had made with regard to the late First Lord of the Admiralty. He would ask, also, how it could be conceived that he, a naval officer, would counsel the Admiralty to send a ship from Woolwich to Newcastle on its way to Portsmouth? He would only say that no Member of that House was more anxious than himself to employ, on all occasions, such language as ought to come from gentlemen; and if he had, in connection with this question, been betrayed into warmth, he thought the occasion was one that justified it.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he wished to say that he had not uttered a word which could be considered prejudicial to the gallant gentleman just referred to—Captain Milne. With regard to the Tynemouth, he was able to state that she went to sea within one hour of the time when the Government had the last of their cargo placed on board.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, the question was that Clause 1, as amended, stand part of the Bill.
 MR. ELIOTT LOCKHART  said, he wished to propose, as an Amendment, to leave out the words "Religious and" in line 36, page 3, of the Bill, which gave power to the Board to provide for the examination of schoolmasters.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he objected to the clause, which was contrary to all the principles of the Common Law of England. There was no machinery at present in existence under which the right of attaching ships could be worked. He had received a communication from Liverpool, stating that the Liverpool Shipowners' Association were desirous that this clause should not pass, unless some better reason could be given for it than had heretofore been brought forward.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he begged to ask the hon. Secretary of the Treasury whether it is his intention, before moving the increased grant of 10,000 l. 60
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, that a mark of favour had been bestowed by the Government upon their Roman Catholic supporters, which appeared to have had the effect of inducing the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. V. Scully) to change his usual seat below the gangway for one more immediately in connection with the Government. With regard to the tactics pursued by the Government upon this occasion, he felt bound to say that nothing had astonished him more than the absolute silence maintained by the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate with respect to the arguments brought forward by those who were opposed to the step which had been taken by the Government.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, there was a strong feeling among the people of Scotland in favour of the alteration proposed by his hon. Friend.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, he believed that the system of education which had prevailed in Scotland for the last two or three centuries, and had produced results far more satisfactory than had been attained in any other country in Europe, was essentially the voluntary system in its best
 66
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, he could not avoid expressing his apprehension that the Bill would impose a much heavier burden of expense upon the country than was yet expected. The expense he suspected would be about 200,000 l. l.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, he hoped that the clause would be postponed, or, at any rate, that it would be rendered intelligible.
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, he rose to order. He thought it desirable that there should be some definite understanding with regard to, the question put by the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Pakington), and that some answer should be given to it by the noble Lord at the head of the Government.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, it is certainly not the fault of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich that the great question of education, brought by the Bill under the consideration of the House, has not yet been decided by a division; but neither do I think that the Government are in fault, because there have been topics of overwhelming interest brought before the House, such as the proposition of the hon. Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Layard), upon a subject which has undoubtedly agitated and interested the country to a very great extent. With regard to the position of the Bill of the right hon. Gentleman, he says he only expects the second reading of that Bill, together with the Bill which I had the honour to propose, and, perhaps, another Bill, with the view to send them to a Select Committee. That being the ultimate object of the right hon. Gentleman, and I think he cannot expect more, it is natural that the Government, who have measures before the House which they think of pressing importance, and which they wish to send to the other House of Parliament in such time that due consideration may be given to them, should be anxious rather to press those measures than to appoint a very early day for the further considera-
 17 18
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he begged to ask the right hon. Baronet the Chief Commissioner of Works whether any precautions were taken to ventilate the House, by the opening of doors and windows, during the intervals of its Session? Whether it was true that Mr. Goldsworthy Gurney, to whom the ventilation of the House was committed last year, was habitually absent from the House, and left the care of its ventilation entirely to the subordinates who mismanaged it last year? And whether the Government would object to placing the ventilation, like the kitchen and the library, under the care of a Committee, to be nominated every Session?
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  said, that the landlords of Scotland were willing to support the parish schools without the aid of a rate. On the bringing up of the Report he should move the insertion of words disqualifying any Roman Catholic from serving as a member of the proposed Educational Board.
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  said he wished to know from the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate whether there were any words in the Bill to prevent the appointment of a Roman Catholic at the Board; and if not, whether he would object to the insertion of some such words on the bringing up of the Report.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he felt bound to condemn the clauses of the Bill, which, in his opinion, could only be regarded as a sort of hotch-potch, like, in fact, Scotch broth itself. Moreover, the whole Bill was quite uncalled for, there being already in Scotland, owing to the wholesome rivalry between different religious sects, more places of education than there were children to fill them. The noble Lord the Member for London had two years ago expressed the opinion that the Protestant and Roman Catholic denominations had made great efforts to diffuse education among the people, and that any scheme of improvement which should have the effect of introducing the element of discord anong those bodies was much to be deprecated. The true principle in regard to education was voluntaryism, and any attempt to set up a general State-paid system must destroy the existing machinery. He had a great objection to the institution at Knellerhall, each pupil-teacher trained in which cost the country 217 1.
 MR. A. STAFFORD  said, he begged to call the attention of the House to the arrangements made for payment of the arrears due to those sick or wounded soldiers who had returned from the Crimea; and to ask whether it was intended to place invalid soldiers on board the hospital ship  Britannia l. l. 22
 MR. LAYARD  said, he desired to say a few words by way of explanation, in order to remove any pain which his observations might have caused to more than one gallant officer. The anecdote which he related on the occasion, which had been referred to, was strictly true, and was told to him by very high authority, and the officer to whom he alluded commanded the artillery of the second division. He did not mean to cast any reflection on General Dacres, or that gallant officer Brigadier General Strangways, or Colonel Lake. He believed the reason given for not being able to bring up the guns was, that the artillery of the second division had lost all its horses. It was, therefore, impossible for the officer commanding the artillery to have the guns brought up.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he would beg to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government whether he would have any objection on Monday next to state to the House the course which he intended to take with regard to the conduct of the business of the House? At the present moment there were seventy-nine Orders of the Day on the books, consisting of thirty-six Bills waiting for second reading, thirty-one Bills passing through Committee, two Bills, as amended, waiting for consideration, six Bills waiting for a third reading, and one Bill waiting for consideration of the Lords' Amendments, and three adjourned debates on very important matters. He thought it would be for the convenience of the House if the noble Lord would state what course he intended to pursue with respect to these seventy-nine Orders of the Day.
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, that the hon. and learned Member for Cork (Mr. V. Scully) could not have been in the House when the noble Lord at the head of the Government made such large promises of pecuniary assistance to the Roman Catholics in Scotland in support of their scheme of education—proposals which took the Scotch members by surprise, but to which no objections had been made by any hon. Member on his (Mr. C. Bruce's) side of the House. It appeared that these promises of the noble Lord had a wonderful effect upon the Roman Catholic Members of that House in inducing them to support the Government in this measure, which, without such assistance, would very likely heve been rejected by the House. When the Roman Catholics in Scotland obtained such pecuniary assistance from
 62
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, he considered that the limitation of the number of inspectors to ten would be found impracticable; he believed that some thirty would be required, There were 2,600 schools connected with the Established Church alone, to which all the borough and other schools would be added.
 MR. SPEAKER : I believe the hon. Member for Glasgow is quite in order, and
 20
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member is perfectly in order in speaking to the question of adjournment. But, if when he closes his remarks on that subject, he makes this Motion by way of Amendment, it will be my duty to tell him that he can not move it.
 MR. SPEAKER : If the hon. Member proposed to put a notice upon the paper which is irregular, of course the part of the notice which is irregular would be left out. It is very irregular that any matter should appear in print in the shape of argument, and, in fact, all notices of questions should be made as short as possible. I am not aware of the exact terms of the notice given by the hon. Member, but I have no doubt that, in consequence of the notice containing some matters which were irregular, a portion of the notice was omitted by the clerk.
 MR. SPEAKER : If I understand the hon. Member, he wished to put a private letter on the Votes of the House. [Mr. STANLEY: No!] The hon. Member has not informed me what the notice was, and I am, therefore, unable to answer the question positively without knowing more about it.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : Much, Sir, as I regret the interruption to the public business of the House which the introduction of this new topic must occasion, I confess that I am personally grateful to the hon. Gentleman for making the statement which we have just heard. The hon. Gentleman has thought proper in another place to make a statement impugning, in no very moderate terms—in language a good deal stronger than that which he has now used—the administration of the Admiralty, not only since I have had the honour of a seat at that Board, but for some time before. I was surprised that the hon. Gentleman did not make this statement on a former evening, when he had ample opportunity for doing so. I certainly had expected that when the hon. Member for Aylesbury, the leader of the Administrative Reform Association, made the Motion which he did a few nights ago, he would have been better supported by the members of that Association; and I was more particularly surprised that the hon. Member for Tynemouth did not rise in his place and make in this House the accusations which he had made against the Admiralty at Drury Lane, and which he has now repeated. The hon. Gentleman says that he waited for some explanatory statement from me, and seems quite to forget the maxim of English justice, that the accusation ought to precede the defence. I will not, however, occupy the time of the House by further preface, but will proceed to state the real facts of the different cases brought forward by the hon. Gentleman, I will use no harsh language. I will not tell him
 36 "I have been waiting for more than a month to send out three thousand horses to the division which I commanded in the Crimea, which is very much in want of horses. I have bought the horses, but the Admiralty tell me they cannot find tonnage to send them out." 37 Cheers, and a cry of 38 39 40 European Columbian. 41 European, s. European Columbian s. Oneida Columbian Oneida 42 Columbian Robert Lowe Indian, 43 44 s. s. Queen's port foreign 45 "The steamer was under orders to go to Portsmouth to take up troops immediately for the Crimea, but orders were given by the Admiralty to the owner, that in her way to Portsmouth she must call at Newcastle." "If this was not so serious a matter for the country, he could laugh himself—but to be ordered to go to Newcastle to call for those twelve tons of stores! The owner wrote to the Secretary to the Admiralty, saying that those twelve tons could be brought up from Newcastle for 6 l. l. l. Cries of 46 Robert Lowe, Robert Lowe Robert Lowe "I take the liberty of suggesting that much valuable time would be saved by shipping them direct from the Tyne. They cannot, I believe, be sent by continuous railway to any of the Royal arsenals, and the delay and risk of accident attending the shifting of such heavy things from one railway carriage to another, and the cartage of them from stations, would be considerable. The powder for charging the magazines might be obtained from Tynemouth Fort (where I understand there is a sufficiency), and sent to these works, so that the apparatus might be delivered here ready for use, without requiring subsequent disturbance." Robert Lowe 47 "I believe it was my own suggestion that the steamer which was to convey these cylinders to the Crimea should take them on board at Newcastle, in order that they might be charged and finally closed up before they left the manufactory; and you will recollect that, in consequence of this course not having been pursued, the cylinders had ultimately to be charged and closed up one by one as they were received on board the  Robert Lowe, l. not at least Robert Lowe London, October 26, 1854. "In obedience to the command of Sir James Graham and the Lords of the Admiralty, the  Robert Lowe, 48 Robert Lowe "JOHN GLADSTONE." l. l. Robert Lowe. Robert Lowe Robert Lowe 49 "A steam ship was lying at Deptford, and the Government engineer, who was to go in her, lived at Woolwich. It was necessary that before the ship was engaged the engineer should inspect her engines. Orders came from the Admiralty to the owner to take her round to Woolwich in order that the engineer might walk on board. The owner answered that it would be better for the engineer to come to the ship than for the ship to go to the engineer, and that it would cost the country less, as the engineer could come over to Deptford for 4 d. l. "I can with certainty declare no such thing as a transport proceeding from this to Woolwich has ever been ordered by the Admiralty, or contemplated by me. The system is for the surveying officers to search out and visit the vessels at their stations in the docks or river. This established custom is of daily occurrence." "I know nothing of the steamer worth 50,000 l. l. l 50 Tyne-mouth. Tynemouth 51 Tynemouth, Tynemouth 52 53 Seringapatam William Lindsay 54 William Lindsay "Austin Friars, London, November, 1852. "Rev. Sir—Considering the immense numbers of persons of all ranks who are now leaving this country for the Australian colonies, and the wide field of employment offered to them there as compared with their native land, it is a matter of regret that comparatively few have the means of judging as to the efficiency of the vessels advertised, or the responsibility of the owners and charterers, and too often rush thoughtlessly, in the absence of proper information, to secure passages in vessels of which they know little more than the name. As, from your position, you may have many inquiries on this subject we are induced respectfully to draw your attention to the arrangements we have made for carrying out the necessary emigration on a scale and in a manner suited to the requirements of the times; and to beg your valuable aid in making the same known throughout your parish for the benefit of those who may have any desire to make their future home in the distant colony of Australia. We may suggest that the chief points on which intending emigrants should inform themselves are, the class and size of the ship by which they purpose sailing—her height between decks—whether she is coppered and copper fastened—whether well ventilated, and who is the owner or charterer. In a word, they should ask themselves the question, Is the person who undertakes to send them on a voyage of 16,000 miles one of established reputation or a mere adventurer? Finding that emigration to so distant a colony has not been generally conducted in the manner in which it ought or might have been, we have arranged to despatch monthly, or twice every month, according to the demand, vessels owned by ourselves, or entirely under our management, and fitted with every improvement that science can suggest, so as to insure to those who may proceed to that colony as large a measure of comfort and safety as it is possible to obtain on a voyage so lengthened. … The three following ships have been fixed to sail on the 1st of December, January, and February respectively:— W. S. Lindsay, James L. Bogert, Swarthmore. "One of these vessels will be named the  Caroline Chisholm, 55 Caroline Chisholm, Robert Lowe, William Lindsay; The Times J. Bogert, Swarthmore, Swarthmore 56 "This vessel carries in her construction itself such elements of ruin, that unless considerable alterations are made, one can only expect to stop her actual leaks, without removing their causes, which will operate whenever the vessel labours at sea." Caroline Chisholm Robert Lowe. Caroline Chisholm Caroline Chisholm Tynemouth. Robert Lowe; 57
 MR. CAYLEY  said, he wished to know whether Mr. Goldsworthy Gurney received any remuneration for his services in looking after the ventilation of the House?
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he would beg to inquire whether the noble Lord would take into consideration the propriety of disposing of those Bills which there was not the slightest chance of carrying during the present Session? By so doing the number of Orders before the House might be reduced to a practicable extent.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he thought the right hon. Baronet had just delivered the funeral sermon of his Bill. He was of opinion that the endeavours of the right hon. Baronet had done great mischief to the cause of education, and that this was much too vast a subject to be dealt with by the right hon. Baronet. The fact that there were now 318,000 teachers in England engaged in the work of instruction, who did not receive a shilling recompense for their labours, and who had 2,400,000 children under their care, had never been mentioned by the right hon. Baronet, an omission that betrayed either ignorance or disingenuousness. It would be a great evil to give Government the inspection of every school in the country; that course was not advocated by Lord Shaftesbury, and one of the greatest authorities on the subject, Mr. Baines, of Leeds, was opposed to all State interference.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he was opposed to the Bill altogether. According to the preamble of the Bill, the Presbyterians of Scotland only were to enjoy the benefit of the Bill. There were three denominations of Christians in Scotland—the Established Church, the Free Church (of which the Lord Advocate was a member), and the United Secession Church. As to the first denomination, the majority of them had declared against the Bill; and the United Presbyterians were opposed to it, if any religious sentiment were contained in it. They had held a synod, at which forty-three voted against the Bill and seventy in favour of it, on the understanding that no religious sentiment should be taught at the expense of the State; so that it came to this, that the only party who would benefit by the Bill would be the Free Church party. The progress of the Bill was somewhat curious. It was in the first instance opposed by the Roman Catholic members on the ground that while Roman Catholics would be required to contribute to the education of the children of Scotland, they would themselves derive no advantage from the measure. This point was very strongly pressed upon the Government in the course of the debate on the second reading; but with no visible effect, as the noble Lord at the head of the Government did not, in his speech on that occasion, hold out any hope that the case of the Catholics would be provided for by the Bill; and the second reading of the measure was only carried by a majority of seven. It was thus evident that the Bill was condemned, and would not be able to pass through its subsequent stages. It was necessary to adopt some means by which the Bill might be saved; a little drama was therefore got up, and a noble Lord on a succeeding evening put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government whether it was intended to continue the grant that was now made to the Roman Catholics after the passing of
 63
 MR. HADFIELD  said, the Bill was a measure pernicious in the highest degree, as it stopped the best feelings of the human mind and the Christian heart. Moreover it was an attempt to tax the people without any necessity for so doing; as, if he was rightly informed, there was not a child in Glasgow who had not the means of education provided for him at the present moment. He denied that the voluntary system had failed, at least in England, or in Scotland, so far as the Free Church was concerned. The Bill was a cowardly one, as it did not dare include a provision for the Roman Catholics; and the votes of the Roman Catholics in that House were obtained for it by an illegal bargain. The preamble of the Bill went to give religious education to those sects, and secular education to the others. He proposed to add, therefore, as an Amendment to the clause, that after the passing of the Bill all grants of money by the Committee of Council for the purpose of education in Scotland shall cease and determine.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he hoped that the hon. Gentleman would not press his Amendment, as at a future clause there would be a better opportunity afforded for the discussion of the principle which it involved.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that no doubt the Bill proposed that the schoolmasters should be partly paid out of the public funds. But if we were to have a system of national education, the nation must pay for it in some way or other. The voluntary system had been tried and failed and had long been discontinued in Scotland, and he believed that there was a very small party indeed in that nation now in its favour. Then if the voluntary system would not do in that country, as he had already said, the money for the payment of the schoolmasters must come out of the public funds, and he did not think that it was of much consequence in what manner. The system of Privy Council grants was not adapted to Scotland, because it was only fitted to localities in which a certain amount of wealth and affluence was combined with a certain amount of poverty. But in Scotland there were many localities in which there was the poverty without the wealth.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, it was proposed that the inspectors, should make a complete educational survey of Scotland, and report upon it, from time to time, to Parliament, so as to keep up a continuous system of statistics on the subject of the state of education in Scotland. The maximum salary of the inspectors was fixed by the clause at 400 l.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he must oppose the Amendment, as the Bill had been framed to conciliate all classes, and the opinion of the House had already been expressed upon the religious point.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, it was designed that each inspector should have from 200 to 250 schools to visit. At present, he believed, there were only three inspectors in Scotland under the Privy Council. He had no objection, however, to omit the words by which the number was fixed at ten, and to leave it to Her Majesty, with the advice of the Privy Council, to appoint such inspectors as might be required.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, the clause was perfectly intelligible. There certainly were a few exceptional cases, but it was proposed to deal with them separately.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that the clause applied generally to the parochial schools, and the object was to fix the maximum and the minimum salary of the schoolmasters, which the clause as it stood did.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he had no intention to introduce any words to promote the object which the noble Lord (Lord W. Graham) had in view. He believed that the people of Scotland were under no apprehension as to this matter, and he did not think it at all necessary to make the provision suggested.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he had no doubt he should find a time and season to discuss the subject with his hon. Friend, but, as the House seemed fully agreed that it was impossible to carry on their legislative duties if such irregular discussions
 21
 MR. WILSON  said, that before the House was called on to decide upon the question to which the noble Lord alluded, there would be laid upon the table of the House a document, not only fully stating the responsibility of the officers, but also stating the grounds on which the officers were appointed. He would take care that the paper should be presented to the House a sufficient number of days before they were called upon to vote the money, that the House might have full and ample time to consider the question.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he had given notice of his intention; upon the Motion for the adjournment of the House to Monday, to move "That it is expedient that the office of Secretary of State for Scotland be reinstated"—[ Cries of and
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he wished to speak upon the Motion for adjournment. He apprehended he was as much in order as the right hon. Gentleman, and he should not give way with the notice he had put upon the paper respecting the administration of public affairs in Scotland. [ Cries of
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  again rose to address the House, when—
 MR. MACKIE  said, he thought that gentlemen connected with town councils would be too much engaged with borough politics and the management of borough funds to be able to attend the Education Board as proposed by the clause, and watch carefully the working out of this system of education. He doubted also whether the Commissioners of Supply would attend; but his chief objection to the measure arose from the want of responsibility in the Board.
 Mr. MAGUIRE  said, he had voted against the Bill in the first instance because it did not offer fair terms to the Roman Catholics of Scotland, and because he thought they were as much entitled to the protection of the State as any other class. It was a matter of perfect indifference to him whether the Presbyterians of Scotland repudiated the Bill or not; but he thought it was the duty of the Roman Catholic Members of that House to see that, if the Roman Catholics of Scotland were to be taxed, their claim to be provided for out of the grants of the Privy Council should be properly considered.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought that the clause involved consequences which its framers could hardly approve of. There was no limit to the time during which a ship might he detained, and no provision was inserted requiring the claim under which a ship was detained to be adjudicated. He thought, too, that some difficulty might arise under those treaties which bound this country to place the ships of some foreign states in the same position and under the same regulations as our own vessels.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he had an Amendment to move, that the clause be altogether omitted. He objected entirely to the constitution of the Board of Education as laid down in the clause. The constitution of the Board, as proposed by this Bill, he must admit, was certainly an improvement upon the Board as originally proposed. The great objection to the Board, however, still existed—that  quasi 61
 MR. THORNELY  said, he strongly objected to this clause, and indeed, to the principle of the measure generally.
 MR. V. SCULLY  said, he hoped the noble Lord, in order to be just, would also ask to have the Roman Catholics of Scotland exempted from taxation under the Bill. He regretted to say that the Members for Scotland, even the liberals amongst them, always voted for Government when not merely Roman Catholic interests but when Irish interests were involved.
 MR. V. SCULLY  said, he wished to say, in answer to the remarks of the hon. Member for Berwickshire, who had just resumed his seat, that he had left his usual place below the gangway in order to discover, if possible, who were the Scotch liberal Members who last night on a measure for the benefit of the people of Ireland, had entered the House to record their votes against the opinions entertained by the Irish liberal Members. He believed the measure now before the House to be one for the benefit of the Scotch people in general, and under such circumstances, instead of following the example of the Scotch Liberal Members, he should refrain, as far as possible, from obstructing its progress.
 Mr. W. WILLIAMS  said, that since he had had a seat in that House he had never once given a vote in opposition to the promotion of education in the United Kingdom, and it was with extreme regret he now rose to make objection to the application of public taxes in the manner proposed by the Bill. He did not so much object to the application of public money under this clause as he did to that under clause ten, where it was absolutely proposed that the sum of 16 1. 65
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he objected to the clause because it created a charge upon the taxes: he would take the sense of the Committee against it.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he objected to the Bill on the ground that by it a disproportionate amount of public money would be allotted to Scotland as compared with England.
 SIR ARCHIBALD CAMPBELL  said, he wished to move an Amendment which, should discriminate between the different classes of parochial schools. In ordinary parishes, the heritors were bound to provide and maintain schools, and also assessed for the salary of the master, at a maximum of 35 1.; Geo. l.,
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, after the speech of the hon Member for Tynemouth (Mr. Lindsay) had appeared in the newspapers, he received a note from the Minister of War, requesting to know from him how far the statement of the hon. Member was accurate so far as he (Sir De Lacy Evans) was concerned. His answer to the noble Lord was, that he had seen the statement referred to in a day or two after it was made and he had mentioned to the hon. Member
 58 59
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he wished to take the opportunity of saying a few words in reference to some expressions which had fallen from the hon. Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Layard) with regard to certain artillery officers in the Crimea. He took it for granted that the hon. Member had not the slightest intention of reflecting on that distinguished officer General Dacres, who at present commanded the artillery at the seat of war. But as the language of the hon. Gentleman might lead to such an inference, he (Sir De Lacy Evans) begged to say that General Dacres was an officer whom he had occasion to
 14
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL : I think it right to say that I have not received any other question than that upon the notice paper.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL : No.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, it was difficult for him to add anything to the explanation he had already given on this subject the other evening. He did not
 23
 MR. CAIRNS  said, he must admit that it was desirable that there should be some provision requiring the claims of those detaining a ship to be put in a train for adjudication. That, however, was a matter which could be arranged in the subsequent part of the Bill.
 MR. CAIRNS  said, he thought that the principle of the clause had been decided upon when the Bill itself was discussed. The principle of attachment was by no means new to the law. It existed by the custom of London, of Bristol, and of Dublin, and it also prevailed throughout Liverpool. The objection of the Liverpool Association to this clause went, as he believed, only to the extent of its interference with British shipowners.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, I rise to order. It appears by the notice on the paper that the hon. Gentleman does not rise to speak to the question of the adjournment of the House to Monday, but to bring forward a Motion of which he has given notice, but which I apprehend cannot be put by way of Amendment.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) whether it was his intention to fix an early day for resuming the adjourned debate on the Education Bills? He would accompany that question by a few observations upon the subject to which it related. He was well aware that a serious obstacle was offered to the progress of business in that House by the practice of introducing discussions on the Motion for the adjournment from the Friday to the Monday, and he had himself frequently protested against that practice; but as long as it should continue in force he did not see why he should not avail himself of it as well as other Members. He was asking no favour from the Government upon that occasion, and he was putting his question to the noble Lord entirely upon public grounds. He thought it could not be satisfactory to the Members of Her Majesty's Government that the Education Bill should be left in
 15 16
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that was a matter for the consideration of the Treasury.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, in reply to the first question of the noble Lord, he had to state that he had been informed that the doors and windows of both Houses of Parliament, as well as the corridors and rooms, were opened during the time the Houses were not sitting, when the state of the weather permitted; that in addition the ventilation arrangements were kept in action at all times during the intervals of the sittings of the Houses day and night, and that there were men on the spot to see that the apparatus worked properly. With regard to the second question of the noble Lord, he had to state that he had been informed that so far was Mr. Goldsworthy Gurney from being habitually absent from the House that he made it a rule to be present every night until ten o'clock at least—that he received reports every half-hour of the state of the ventilation of both Houses while there, that the clerk of the works always knew where to find him, and that since he had got charge of the ventilation of the Houses of Parliament he resided within two minutes' walk of them. He (Sir W. Molesworth) had further to observe, that he could not at all agree with the noble Lord in his statement that the ventilation of the House was bad. On the contrary, he contended that the ventilation had this year been very good. With regard to the last question of the noble Lord, he would only say that he did not think any good would be gained by handing over the ventilation of the House to the Kitchen Committee, or any other Committee.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he could only state that there were certain Bills which the Government thought it their duty to press forward to a conclusion. There were many Bills about which he knew nothing, and the fate of which was to him a matter of perfect indifference.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he could give no answer to the question at present, but would consider the matter before Monday.
 CAPTAIN DUNCOMBE  said, he rose to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty whether any despatches had been received from Vice Admiral Dundas, stating what
 71
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : It appears to me, Sir, that the question is one which it is for the House to answer, and not for the Attorney General. If the question should come before the House in a practical shape, it will be my duty, no doubt, considering the office I fill, to state my opinion; but I do not think I ought to answer upon a speculative question, involving
 73
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he would beg to ask why the schoolmasters were in the asylum at
all?
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he rose to ask the Paymaster General whether an undertaking was not given by the late Secretary at War, on behalf of the Government, that 120 soldiers' sons should be admitted into the asylum at Chelsea, and whether only fifty soldiers' sons have been admitted: and what was the cause of the delay, and on whom the blame of it was to rest. Since he last called the attention of the House to this subject he had again been to Chelsea, and although at one end of the building in course of erection, preparations were being made for putting on the roof, yet there appeared no chance of the rest of the building being roofed for a month or two, or of its being ready for occupation for five or six months.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he wished to know whether the Government meant that the House was to agree to the principle of these different Bills? Were they to agree to the principle that religion was to be made a part of education, and then agree to the principle of the Bill that excluded religion? Was the House to stultify itself by agreeing to the opposite principles of these opposed Bills? Considering the state of the Session and the feeling of the House, the noble Lord would do well not to keep these Orders any longer upon the paper.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, it was his opinion that the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwitch (Sir J. Pakington) was under some misapprehension in regard to the legal effect of this clause. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to think that the 61st section would bind the future colonial Legislature. But that was not so. The 61st section was a mere  brutum fulmen 94
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he thought it was necessary for the Legislature to have two separate legislative measures, and that the first, enabling them to proceed to the consideration of the second, must receive the Royal assent before they can proceed to consider the second. The prohibition must be rescinded before the consideration of the alterations could be entered upon; and that appeared to be the intent of the language and the effect of the Bill.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he thought the time of the House would be better occupied in proceeding with measures which might be brought to a practical conclusion than in resuming a discussion that could not lead to any result this Session. If this Bill were to be sent to a Select Committee, the other two Educational Bills must also be sent, and that ought not, in his opinion, to be done  pro formâ,
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he
 110 pro formâ.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the noble Lord (Lord Seymour) seemed disposed to deal with these three important measures in a very summary manner. He (Mr. M. Gibson) had introduced one of them, the Free School Bill, the second reading of which had not even been discussed yet. He thought the country would ask why all the time had been spent on these Bills, if they were now to be got rid of by a Motion for an indefinite adjournment.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he considered that every Member was pledged to forward a measure of education, seeing that at the hustings education had been a password of every one of them; and he therefore supported the Motion of his right hon. Friend.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he thought his right lion. Friend ought to be allowed a few days to consider what course he should adopt, and would suggest that on Monday the noble Lord (Lord Seymour), instead of renewing his present Motion, should move that the Order of the Day for the second reading of the Bill be discharged.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he was of opinion that the country would approve the postponement of the Bills until next Session.
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, he should support the Motion of the noble Lord, but urged him to accede to the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole).
 MR. HENLEY  said, he would also appeal to the noble Lord, to withdraw his Motion. He thought the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir W. Clay) might profit by the advice which had been given as to the withdrawal of measures which would probably take up a great deal of time, but were not likely to become law.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that the only undertaking which had been given, was a statement made by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Wiltshire (Mr. S. Herbert) in the course of a debate on a Motion of the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. M. Milnes), that in that portion of the hospital occupied by students training to be schoolmasters in regiments, there was accommodation for 120 children, and that he proposed to make arrangements for the introduction of that number. It had turned out that only fifty children could be admitted into that part of the asylum, and a new building had therefore to be erected for the reception of the students training for schoolmasters. He understood that the roof was to be put on the building in about a fortnight, and that the building would be ready for occupation in the course of three months. Whether there had been any unnecessary delay he was not aware, but he understood that the plans had been altered once or twice, and that there had been some difficulty in procuring some of the materials.
 MR. BOUVERIE  replied, that it was considered essential to their proper training, that they should learn to teach in
 75
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, there was no doubt some difficulty existed in consequence of the present system of the Governor giving his assent to local Bills, which were afterwards disallowed at home; but these difficulties were rapidly diminishing in proportion to the increased celerity of communication which was now taking place between this country and the Colonies. He did not believe that there was any really practical and substantial grievance existing which the proposed Amendment was calculated to remedy. The cases in which the Crown exercised its veto were of exceedingly rare occurrence; still the veto of the Crown was an absolute right, and he agreed with the right hon. Member for Droitwich that they would place the Governor in a very difficult and invidious position by investing him with this power.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, that the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield asked the Committee not to trust to the noble Lord, but, he asked, whom then should they trust to? If they were to trust the people of the colony, how could their opinion be more clearly expressed than by their legitimate organ—their Legislative Council? With regard to petitions having been presented against the Bill, out of a population of about 300,000 only about 4,000 persons had signed those petitions. He regretted having said, on a former occasion, anything that could have been considered offensive to the hon. Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe). That hon. Gentleman had adverted to his (Mr. Scott's)
 107
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, he feared the clause would place the colonial Legislature in a position of greater ambiguity than they were now.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, that in such a case as this he considered that it would
 93
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, that by this Bill both branches of the Legislature were to be elective. The argument of the hon. Member for Southwark (Mr. A. Pellatt), therefore, did not apply to this Bill, whatever application it might have when the New South Wales Bill was before the House.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, he considered the reply of the noble Lord a conclusive answer to the hon. Member's argument, that the Bill had been for an entire year before the Government, and the general expression of opinion from the colony had been one of impatience that there was so long a delay in giving effect to their unanimous wishes.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he considered the colonial Legislature was the best judge of the proper salaries to be paid these officers, because they would know the duties to be discharged, the value of money, and the price of provisions and other things in the colony. There was one principle which had been recognised in all these colonies as a fair one—that persons appointed to offices on the faith of their being permanent, and removed by the change to responsible Government, should be entitled to some compensation. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lowe) objected to that principle. He could not agree with him, and should certainly support the decision of the colony.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the question of religious endowment in the colony as a principle was not involved in this vote; if it had been, the hon. Gentleman would be quite justified in his opposition to it. What the hon. Member said was, that he was so persuaded of the superiority of the voluntary principle, that he would not allow the colonists to have any opinion on the matter. He said, he had no objection to their voting this sum at any future time, but he would not admit that they now represented the colonists.
 97
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he saw it stated, when in Vienna, that the hon. and learned Gentleman, in the course of some observations which he made with respect to his administration of the Colonial Department, asserted that when he last held the seals of that department he had provoked the Canadian rebellion. [Mr. ROEBUCK: I did not say so.] He was glad to find that the hon. and learned Gentleman repudiated any such statement. I was certainly contrary to the fact, and he did not expect him to have made it. The hon. and learned Gentleman now made a representation with respect to Canada which was greatly at variance with the history of that colony. Canada had been divided, most unfortunately, into the two provinces of Upper and Lower Canada. In Lower Canada there were two assemblies—one
 104
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he thought the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Hadfield) had totally misapprehended the facts when he said that the colonists were altogether opposed to the grant for religious purposes, and that the measure was carried by the influence of the nominee Members of the Council. The fact was, that on the first division the numbers were twenty-nine to ten, and afterwards, upon the Vote of 50,000 l. 90
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he would admit that the clause appeared to be very defective; but, nevertheless, he was not prepared to expunge it.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he
 95
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that the difference was, that that which could not be safely granted in the year 1835 and 1836, it was found might be safely granted, and had been safely granted, at a subsequent period. Long before he (Lord J. Russell) was at the head of the Colonial Department, or in any office whatever under the Crown, there had been disputes in the Legislature of Lower Canada, and Lord Bathurst, who was then Colonial Minister, solved the difficulty, by applying the revenues of Lower Canada when they had not been granted by the Assembly of Lower Canada. He did not think that the question could have been solved in any other way than by uniting the two provinces; and, by such union, the loyalty and concurrence had been produced which had made it safe to make those concessions which it would have been unsafe to make before. With regard, also, to Australia, it would not do to legislate for those colonies on the ground that there had been petitions and public meetings in favour of this course or that, but on some known and recognised principle.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that the salaries and allowances had been settled by the Council without the intervention of the officers themselves.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that he had already on a former occasion stated that there would be great difficulty in making a distinction between Imperial and local legislation for the colonies, and he owned that he could not, notwithstanding the high authority of his right hon. Friend at the head of the Board of Works, see the force of the discrimination which he had at one time attempted to draw. He
 82 83
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that the
 88
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, the noble Lord said he would not give a Government day to any private Member. Did he intend to give a Government day to the Education Bill of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Droitwich (Sir J. Pakington), that being the Bill of a private Member? He (Lord R. Cecil) protested against a subject of that importance being referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, the question was whether the future action of the colonial Legislature should be circumscribed. The Legislative Council was to consist of one-third nominees, and he would put it to the Committee whether, that being the case, the real feelings of the colonists could be represented? They would have no power of rescinding this Vote of 50,000 l.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that when he made an inquiry of the noble Lord on this subject, the noble Lord conveyed in his answer that he had made an unnecessary request for this information, and that the House were indebted to the labours of private Members for the pressure of business. The noble Lord had repeated the statement to-night, that the Orders of the Day and the Bills in progress were chiefly those of private Members, to whom were to be attributed so many calls upon the labours and exertions of the House. But he did not find that the noble Lord was justified either in the tone he had adopted the other night, or in the observations he had just made. Of Bills not yet read a second time there were twenty-eight Government Bills and seventeen Bills of private Members; of Bills in Committee there were twenty-two Government Bills and twelve Bills of private Members; of
 78
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he should move that the clause be omitted. He did so, because he had given notice of moving the insertion of a paragraph in Schedule one which was directly opposed to the clause. The purport of his Amendment was, that any Bill which had passed the Council and Assembly should be presented to the Governor of the colony in the first instance, who would have the power to declare his assent thereto, and, in case of his giving his assent, the Bill should be final. But, in the event of his withholding his assent, or reserving the Bill for the signification of Her Majesty's pleasure thereon, then such Bill should not have any force or authority in the colony unless Her Majesty's assent should be signified within eighteen months after the passing of the Bill. When all the stages of legislation by the colony which were recognised by
 81
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he felt bound to press his Amendment to a division.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he would move, as an Amendment, to leave out the words referring to the schedule, so that the civil list might be subject to alteration without the proposed restrictions.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that the civil list for the colony of Victoria was part of the contract between the Crown and the colonial Legislature, and that Legislature was honourably bound to make such a civil list as the circumstances of the colony required. But what the hon. Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe) objected to was, that the whole of the civil list in the colony had been obtained by fraud and misrepresentation, and that, after the people of the colony had recovered from the intoxication of the gold fever, they would be the very first to oppose it. He supposed they must submit to the clause, but he looked forward to a means by a subsequent clause to give the necessary power to alter the civil list.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he had upon all occasions voted for an elective Upper Chamber, but in this case he should certainly give his vote against the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lowe). He had no means of testing the petitions which had been presented; but, as far as he could judge, public opinion was as much on one side as the other upon this question. It was too late now to go into the question on which side was the preponderance of feeling—that was a question which ought to have been considered in 1850. Power had been given by the Imperial Parliament to the colonial Legislature in that year to frame a constitution for themselves, and upon that, however, they had acted; it was too late now to turn round and say, "We will not confirm that constitution which you have framed under the powers we have given to you."
 MR. SPEAKER : Anything affecting the seat of a Member of this House is a question of privilege.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : The statement I made, Sir, was this, that with reference to a particular vessel, she had been transferred to Mr. Gladstone by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lindsay) before she was taken up by the Government. What I did state was this, that, so far as I knew, the interest of the hon. Gentleman had been transferred; but I said that he interfered so much in the management of these vessels, that I had every reason to believe he must be perfectly cognisant of all that took place about them.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : I have great pleasure, Sir, in stating to the House, that the Admiralty have this morning received despatches from Admiral Dundas, stating the steps he had taken, and also containing the most welcome intelligence that many of the persons who were, from the account of the man who was rescued by the boat of the Cossack, supposed to have been killed, are some of them only wounded and not killed, and others are not wounded, although prisoners. Admiral Dundas states, that he wrote a letter to the governor of Helsingfors, stating what had occurred, remonstrating most strongly, and pointing out what an atrocious act it was, to fire on a boat's crew under a flag of truce. He has received an answer from the governor, excusing or justifying to a certain extent what took place, declaring that the officers and soldiers said they saw no flag of truce, and that they had been irritated by vessels on some occasions hoisting the Russian flag, and, as stated in the newspapers, under colour of a flag of truce taking soundings, elsewhere. The House will remember that about a week ago, I was asked whether I had any reason to believe that that had taken place, and I stated that no report of such a transaction had reached the Admiralty. This morning I have seen the officer who commanded the gun-boat in the bay of Kertch on the occasion when this was reported by the newspapers to have happened, and he assures me most distinctly and unequivocally that nothing of the kind was ever done. The carriage which was being restored was taken on shore by a Russian boat, under the command of a Russian officer, accompanied by one of the Viper's boats, which was all the time under the eye of the Russian officer, and no soundings were taken. He says that it was utterly unnecessary to do what was reported, becaue there was not the slightest difficulty in taking the soundings of the spot in question, either by night or day. The spot at which the carriage was to be landed was pointed out by the Russian officer, and it was taken on shore by him; therefore there can be no doubt that the report is totally without foundation. I thought it desirable that the earliest communication should be made to the public of the intelligence we have received from Admiral
 72 Cossack.
 MR. MIALL  said, he would move to leave out the words from "Colony" to the end of the clause. As far as could be collected, this Amendment was meant to negative the provisions in the Bill relating to public worship in the colony. He objected on principle to any payment out of the funds of the colony for the purpose proposed. The money was to be distributed among ministers of various denominations. This was a seeming homage to the justice of the case, but in point of fact the provision itself was not founded in justice, for it only embraced Christians, and not Jews. Besides, there were three or four denominations in the colony who absolutely repudiated all grants for religious purposes, and of course would refuse to participate in them. As the matter at present stood, it would be necessary for the colonial Legislature to have an absolute majority of both Houses upon the clauses and schedule of the Bill; he would therefore move the omission from the clause of the words which imposed this condition.
 MR. MIALL  said, if the colonists had done what was under consideration in a proper manner, Parliament would not now be asked to sanction it; and when he was asked to say "aye" to a proposition from which he dissented, he chose, in the exercise of his discretion, to say "no." He was willing to leave to the colonists the fullest power of voting, not merely 50,000 l., l.,
 MR. MIALL  said, the noble Lord stated that the colonists must be in favour of the grant for religious worship, because they voted three to one in favour of it. That was the strongest argument in favour of his Amendment, because all he wanted was to leave the colonists free action in the matter; and if they were so decidedly in favour of the grant, as the noble Lord supposed, they would no doubt affirm it.
 MR. MIALL  said, he should move, as an Amendment, that the figures "112,750 l. l. l.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he must deny that he wished to interfere with the free agency of the colonists. When this colony was reformed it would be time enough for it to say what it would do.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he should support the Amendment, believing that the people of Victoria were really opposed to this grant.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he should support the Amendment, the object of which was to get rid of an obnoxious clause in the Bill, by which 50,000 l. 89 l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he meant to take the sense of the House on his Motion, which was on the paper, that the debate on the second reading of the Education (No. 2) Bill be further adjourned until that day three months.
 MR. J. BALL  said, that the hon. Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe) had stated his case as if acts done between the period of a measure of the colonial Legislature receiving the assent of the Governor and of its being vetoed by the Crown were
 87 ipso facto
 MR. J. BALL  said, he wished to correct what he believed to be a misapprehension among hon. Members. There was a material difference between the present and the Victoria Bill. The restrictions in the New South Wales Bill did not extend generally to the provisions of the reserved
 102
 MR. J. BALL  said, he did not consider the amount excessive, regard being had to the value of money in the colony, and the fact that the revenue of the colony exceeded 3,000,000 l.
 MR. J. BALL  said, he must contend that the clause was essential, in order to carry out the principle which was recognised by the right hon. Baronet himself. The object of the clause was simply to remove any doubt as to the limits of the constitution of the colony. This clause was absolutely necessary to give life and operation to the 61st clause. The clause would not have the effect of superseding the will of the colony; it would only clear up a question arising from Clause 61, which otherwise would be left obscure. There was no desire on the part of the Government to interfere with the wishes of the colonists; and it was only intended by the present clause to remove any doubt which might arise as to the limit of the power of the colonial Legislature, and, by making this clear, to avoid any discussions which might otherwise arise upon this point.
 MR. J. BALL  said, he thought it his duty to state, after the observations of the hon. Gentleman, that the present amount of salaries of the members of the Administration who could retire was, altogether, 7,300 l. l.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he must deny that anything done by the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had provoked the rebellion of 1837. The noble Lord had done everything he could for the purpose of pacifying the Canadas; and, indeed, there had never been any Colonial Secretary who had given greater general satisfaction than the noble Lord had given. He trusted the policy of this country would be to give to the colony under consideration the same government and the same responsibility as existed in Canada. Although he objected to a nominated Upper Chamber generally, yet, looking to the circumstances of the colony, he would not object to the Bill.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that the Attorney General and the Colonial Secretary had
 109
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that the framers of the constitution had attempted to get for themselves an hereditary aristocracy; but there was such an indignant shout of execration throughout the colony that they were obliged to withdraw their pretensions. He had no hesitation in declaring, after a careful perusal of the dispatches, that the feeling of the colony was in favour of an elective Upper House.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he thought that nothing could be more impolitic than to sanction the principle of enabling the Legislative body to restrict the power of the country in reforming its own institutions. He looked upon the whole course of policy which had been pursued with reference to this subject with suspicion, and should, therefore, support the Amendment.
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  said, there was a report that the Government intended to give a guarantee for a Turkish loan. He wished to know whether this was the intention of the Government, and whether the noble Lord intended to bring the matter before the House?
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that some time ago that House had given power to the Legislature of Australia to alter their constitution, and the reason why that power was given was, he presumed, because the existing constitution was considered faulty. When that Bill was passed it appeared to him that the House relinquished its Imperial functions, and conferred upon the colonial Legislature a power which it ought itself to have exercised. If it was necessary to alter the constitution of those colonies, it was, he thought, the duty of that House to make such alterations as seemed expedient; but, instead of adopting that course, the Colonial Office said, "We will grant to an already faulty constitution the power of acting for the people of the colony." The legislative body to which that power was granted did not, he maintained, represent the opinions of the people of the
 105 106
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that the Colonial Secretary had had this question before him so early as 1835. Canada, at that time, demanded an electoral second Chamber. The noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) strenuously opposed that demand, and the consequence was, that Canada rebelled. Since that period the noble Lord had been obliged to yield to every demand which was then made by Canada. The interests of the colony and of England were the same, but there was an interest in the colony which was neither that of England nor of the colony, but of a clique in that country, which was favoured by the Colonial Office in this. He hoped the hon. Gentleman would divide upon the question, that the colony might know that there was a party in that House determined, taking warning by experience, to confer a constitution which should really be in accordance with the interests of the community at large. He should have thought that the experience of twenty years' discord in Canada would have induced the noble Lord to do something to prevent similar discord in Australia. If he did not do so he would be obliged to yield in a pusillanimous manner to the demands of the colonists there.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to know if the noble Lord at the head of the Government
 80
 MR. MALINS  said, that after the discussion upon administrative reform, when the hon. Member for Tynemouth (Mr. Lindsay) had made his statement, the House would remember that several times in the speech of the First Lord of the Admiralty, the right hon. Gentleman did, not indirectly, but one might say almost directly, charge the hon. Member for Tynemouth with being interested in Government contracts. Now, he (Mr. Malins) thought when any Member of that House, and particularly a Minister of the Crown, rose in his place and charged another Member of that House with an infringement of such an Act of Parliament as that which had just been referred to, and which was passed to preserve the purity and independence of Parliament, that was a circumstance which ought not to be passed over by the House entirely in silence, and therefore he would now put the question to the right hon. Gentleman, whether he had any reason for making a statement amounting certainly to the belief on his part that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Tynemouth was interested in Government contracts?
 MR. MALINS  said, that, under these circumstances, he should bring forward the Motion to-morrow, at the evening sitting.
 MR. MALINS  said, he would beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman in the chair, whether the subject was a question of privilege? If it were so, he should give notice to the hon. Member for Tynemouth of his intention to bring it before the House.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he wished to call the attention of the Attorney General to the petition of the inhabitants of the pariah of Blackburn, who stated that they, being loyally attached to the constitution of England in Church and State, had been greatly aggrieved by the conduct of a certain Roman Catholic priest named Peter Kay, who illegally and arrogantly assumed the title of Vicar and Rural Dean of the Hundred of Blackburn, declaring that title to have been conferred upon him by the so-called Bishop of Blackburn, Dr. Turner. The rural deanery was legally occupied, and the gift of the vicarage belonged to the Archbishop of Canterbury; but this Peter Kay had inscribed upon his door-plate the title of "rector," which he also assumed in some printed circulars. The petitioners had sent a memorial to the Secretary of State for the Home Department, but having received no answer, they now appealed to the House of Commons for protection. He (Mr. Spooner) wished therefore to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State whether he had taken the matter into his consideration.
 MR. LOWE  said, he had no doubt the Gentlemen with whom the noble Lord had been in conference were ready enough to surrender this particular point of the liberties of the colonists in consideration of the great advantages they were themselves to receive. He thought that the noble Lord ought not to allow himself to be influenced by any statements which had been made to him on this subject, as, from all he (Mr. Lowe) knew of the parties who had made these representations, he did not consider their opinion such as could be acted upon beneficially by the Government at home. The noble Lord's observations showed a remnant of that wretched spirit which first granted the power of local Government to the colonists, and then would not resolve to treat them as possessing that power, but instead set up all kinds of checks and counter-checks which prevented the colonists from using the power at all. The state of the law which the noble Lord proposed to perpetuate was this:—When a Bill was brought before the local Legislature the Governor might either refuse his assent, grant it, or reserve the Bill for Her Majesty's assent. Nobody objected to the power possessed by the Governor of vetoing a Bill, or to his reserving it, if he thought the subject was not a fit one for the consideration of the colonial Legislature; but the practical grievance complained of, and which was very great, was that, after the Governor had given his assent to the Bill, the Home authorities should have the power of negativing it. In fact, the Government reserved to itself two alternatives, while the colonial Legislature had only one. What was the consequence? Why, that certain Bills became the law of the colonies, and people acted under that law, and lent money upon the security that the law, after being assented to by the Governor, would receive the assent of the Home Government; but, when the Bill reached this country, the sanction was refused, and it ceased to be law all at once. The noble Lord said that only four Bills of the New South Wales Legislature had been disavowed since 1850, but the principle was the same as if all had been disavowed, for people did not know what law might not be revoked, and consequently they did not
 84 l.
 MR. LOWE  said, he wished to state that the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies had paid him a compliment which he did not deserve, for it was his opinion—and it was an opinion entertained by the best lawyers in the colony—that the veto of the Crown invalidated all acts done during the time between the Governor's assent and the veto of the Crown; and, in point of fact, the colonists had had recourse to various expedients, such as passing an Emergency Act, to remedy that evil.
 MR. LOWE  said, it seemed to him that what the noble Lord was contending for was not that the colonial Legislature should manage matters in their own way, but that the present body should fetter the action of all future Legislatures, and prescribe to them the conditions on which they should exercise the power intrusted to them. It was a matter of practical experience that in the case of Canada, the most extreme difficulty was found in getting together the absolute majority required. They had to hunt up the Legislative Council there from every quarter, and were obliged to pass the Bill through two or three stages in a single day, in order to accommodate one old gentleman who wished to get away but whose presence was necessary to make up the number required. If this condition of an absolute majority were the constitution of the colony, it might be very well to leave it alone; but why should this Legislature, improvident and unsatisfactory as it had proved itself, be empowered to tie the hands of all future Legislatures in this way.
 MR. LOWE  said, he must deny that he had said anything against the character of the gentlemen who had formed the deputation that had waited upon the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell). He did not deny they were wealthy; on the contrary, it was because they were wealthy, and possessed of such enormous property in land of a particular description, that their opinions were not entitled to that weight which the right hon. Baronet appeared to attach to them.
 MR. LOWE  said, that the gentleman who had prepared this constitution, not satisfied with having a nominative Upper House and a constitution that could not be altered unless two-thirds of that nominative House were willing to commit suicide, effectually packed the representation of the Lower House. He had given notice of an Amendment upon this paragraph of the schedule, which, however, he thought it was hardly worth while to move. The electoral divisions of the colony were most unfair and unequal. Sydney, which contained fully one-fourth of the inhabitants of the colony, or some 50,000 persons, returned only three members, and it was now proposed that another should be added to the number; while four remote pastoral districts, which could not contain above 15,000 inhabitants, and which already returned four members—one more than Sydney—were now to return four additional members, so that there would be eight representatives of a population of 15,000, and four representatives of a population of 50,000. He wished to observe, further, with regard to the civil list, that the colonial Legislature had appointed certain members of the Government to form a Committee to prepare this Bill, and those gentlemen had voted themselves increased salaries to meet the additional expense of living. To one of those gentlemen the Legislature, in a spirit of extraordinary liberality, had voted back Salary for eight years at the same rate, and the retiring salary was fixed at the full rate of the salary thus raised. He thought it right to mention this circumstance, in order to expose the gross jobbery which had been perpetrated.
 MR. LOWE  said, that some of the Gentlemen who had been referred to were upon the Committee which settled the salaries, and they voted their own salaries at the full amount. Their salaries were increased by the allowances made on account of the gold discoveries; and the Bill gave them retiring allowances, calculated, not upon the amount of their ordinary salaries, but upon this increased rate of salary.
 MR. LOWE  said, that his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies had observed, that he (Mr. Lowe) had been in favour of the principle of an Upper Chamber. But the question which was agitated in the Legislative Council at the time to which the hon. Gentleman referred was really whether they should have one House or two. They never dreamt of the Home Government letting them have two elective Chambers, and his argument was, that if they must have the nominees it would be better to have them in a separate Chamber, that the infusion would then be less obnoxious. If they were really intended to form a substantial part of the Legislature, he would point out to the Committee that no materials for such a body existed in Australia, because persons of the requisite education, who were fitted to become members, returned to England after acquiring wealth. He believed, if they established a Chamber of Peers out of the only materials they would be able to obtain, they would have a large portion of them passing through the Insolvent Court in a few years. In fact, when the Act of 1843 came into operation, three months had not elapsed before one of the twelve nominees went through the court. They could not create an aristocracy by legislation; the growth of such a body must depend on the social condition of the country, and the Government must be in accordance with that social condition. That the proposed measure was a contrivance which had been resorted to against the will of the people of the colony was testified
 103
 MR. LOWE  said, he would move to omit all the words after the word "colony" in the thirty-fourth line. The effect of
 101 animus
 MR. LOWE  said, that the public opinion in the colony was not in favour of the civil list; and he believed the colonists would gladly agree to its reduction. Putting, however, this question aside, he had one
 100 l.
 MR. LOWE  said, he thought he could prove to the satisfaction of the Committee that this civil list was obtained by fraud
 98 l., l. l., l. 99 l. l. l.,
 MR. LOWE  said, he must beg the attention of the Committee, even at that late stage, to the provision which they were now asked to sanction. By this 44th section the Legislature of the colony of Victoria enacted that if the Legislative Houses of the colonies of New South Wales, Van Diemen's Land, or South Australia should hereafter petition Her Majesty to alter their boundaries, it should be lawful for Her Majesty, by any order to be made with the advice of Her Privy Council, to comply with such petition. Now, how could it enter into the mind of any man to conceive that the Legislature of Victoria could have power to pass such
 96
 MR. LOWE  said, that the Bill, as it now stood, seemed to give the colonial Legislature the power of which his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General wished to deprive them; but the matter appeared at present to be involved in great confusion. The right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington) taunted them with inconsistency in not carrying out the will of the colonists; but this was not a question of the will of the colonists. They must distinguish between the colonists and the colonial Legislature; and it was ridiculous to suppose that the colonists would wish to put voluntary fetters upon their own powers.
 MR. IRTON  said, that seeing the strong feeling which existed on the subject, he thought that it would be best to withdraw the Bills.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he wished to ask the hon. and learned Attorney General whether, under the provisions of the Act 22nd  Geo. l.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he should next day, at the evening meeting of the House, endeavour to obtain the opinion of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General, without a fee—by moving that Mr. Speaker should cause to be issued a new writ for the City of London.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he hoped that the House would have ample notice if the practice of subsidising were to be revived.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he thought it had been incorrectly stated that by this Bill the prerogative of the Crown would be affected. That, however, was not the object of the Bill. It was not the prerogative of the Crown which was concerned, but it was the power of Her Majesty's Ministers to do certain acts, upon many of which, in all probability, the Crown was never consulted, and probably knew nothing whatever about it. We had already gone too far in the matter of interfering with the Government of our colonies. It was now high time to allow our colonial Legislatures full exercise of the rights which belonged to them. He should support the Amendment of the hon. Member for North Staffordshire.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he wished to know whether the noble Lord at the head of the Government intended to take any measures to induce the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex to withdraw the Sunday Trading Bill. [General cheering.]
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, he wished to offer an explanation of a statement he had made on Friday, relative to a notice of a question given to him by the hon. Member for Chester (Mr. O. Stanley). He had on Saturday found among his papers a copy of the question in the terms in which the hon. Member stated that he had furnished it to him. He presumed that he had received the question at a time when he was engaged, had put it aside at the moment, and afterwards lost sight of it.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it was found that hon. Members objected to the postponement of the order, and it was therefore put down for this evening.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he could not express any opinion as to whether the conduct of which the petitioners complained, was or was not a violation of the Ecclesiastical Titles Act; but he need only refer them to one clause of the Act, which enabled any one of them to refer the case to the Attorney General, and with his consent to sue for the penalties; and consequently, if they thought a breach of the Act had been committed, that was the course which they ought to pursue.
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, he would suggest that if the Government would not consent to the whole provision being struck out, and it was necessary to give effect to this 61st section, that the majority should be an absolute majority of the colonial Legislature.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he would not press his Amendment; but he wished to have some further explanation as to the necessity for two Acts of the colonial Legislature.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that not being a lawyer he would not presume to question the soundness of the opinion expressed by the hon. and learned Gentleman; but he certainly should have thought, as the object of the Bill was to enable the Crown to give its consent to the colonial Bill, that when the Crown had given its consent to the colonial Bill, that 61st clause would be binding on the colony. He was sorry to say that the explanation of the hon. and learned Gentleman did not remove his objection, and it seemed to him that if words were necessary in order to remove doubts with regard to the validity and real meaning of the 61st section, the words so added by the Government ought to have been added in accordance with the wishes of the colonists, and as to what those wishes were there could be no doubt. They desired that which the noble Lord the Colonial Secretary himself had recognised on a former evening as a wise and prudent provision, namely, that there should be no light and hasty tampering with a constitution which had once been adopted. If, therefore, explanatory words were necessary to give validity to that wish, and to the 61st clause, why did not the Government add words to this effect—that a bare majority should not reverse the conditions, and that those conditions should not be reversed except by a majority which was equal to that by which the colonists demanded any change in the constitution.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he would now move to omit the clause altogether. He hoped that the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) would reconsider the wording of this clause, which in its effect would be an interference with the desire of the colonists themselves. That was a proceeding which he considered to be wholly unnecessary and impolitic on the part of the Imperial Parliament. This clause, as it was worded, he contended, would,
 91 92
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he thought the hon. Member misunderstood the proposition to which he was asked to say "aye," which was substantially that the colonists should be allowed to spend their own money in the way they preferred. It was clear from the numbers by which this scheme was supported that the elective portion of the colonial Legislature was in favour of it.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that of eight petitions upon the subject presented to the House and printed for the information of hon. Members, only two related to this subject. Having already expressed his opinion on this subject in connection with a similar provision in the Victoria Bill, he should not go over the same ground again. He would only observe that the example of the United States of America was strongly in favour of such a provision.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that no stipulation had been made by the home Government—neither under Lord Aberdeen nor Lord Derby—that so large a civil list should be adopted as a condition for the enactment of the Victoria constitution.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had understood that the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) would make an arrangement to take the adjourned debate on the second reading of his Education Bill on Friday, July 6, but he found the Order of the Day fixed for that evening.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that, although he objected to the clause altogether, he could not vote against this part of it, for he considered the provision made for religion a valuable part of the measure. He could not concur in the view which hon. Gentlemen opposite took of this question, though he quite agreed with them in thinking the colonial Legislature had displayed a very liberal spirit in passing this Bill, but in no part of their proceedings had they done themselves greater honour than by making this handsome provision for the maintenance of divine worship in the colony. He should presently move the omission of the clause altogether, but upon entirely different grounds to those stated by the supporters of this Amendment.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that he considered that a great deal of the weight which would naturally attach to what fell from the hon. Member for Kidderminster, in consequence of his great experience in the Australian colonies, was a good deal lessened by the personal feelings and recollections which appeared constantly to influence the remarks which he addressed to the House on the subject of colonial matters. The hon. Member had thought it right to tell the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell)
 85 86
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that they were entering upon a discussion of the principle of these Bills, which had better be deferred until the question was regularly before the House.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : If my noble Friend hears that cheer I think he will be disposed to attend to it.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the noble Lord (Lord R. Cecil) had asked whether a Government day would be given to the Education Bills. The noble Lord forgot that one of those measures on which the others depended, was first introduced by his (Lord Palmerston's) noble Friend the Secretary of State for the Colonies.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I can only say that when the Government have a communication to make on a matter of this sort they will make it. But it is not the habit of the Government to give prospective answers to questions as to their intentions on matters upon which no intentions have been formed
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON ; Sir, I rise to fulfil the promise which I made on Friday last, that I would to-day state, as far as I was able, the intentions of Her Majesty's Government with regard to the various Bills now in progress through the House. Their number is certainly very considerable, but any one who looks at them with a view to classification will see that a great proportion of those children whose fate is to be decided are the offspring of private members, and that the Bills in regard to which Government can claim the responsibility are a comparatively small proportion of the whole. It is, however, with the latter only that we can deal, for we do not presume to take upon ourselves to dispose of Bills brought in by private Members, and with regard to which, private Members being responsible, it is for them to judge how far they have a fair chance of being carried through the two Houses. Of Government measures there are thirty-three in different stages of progress, independent of Continuance Bills and Bills which have been sent down from the House of Lords. I should only occupy the time of the House unnecessarily by reading through a list of them. Some are measures of comparatively small interest, and cannot give rise to much discussion, and there are others of considerable importance which I think it will be essential to pass, whatever discussion may take place upon them. Among these I may mention the Bills relating to limited liability and partnership, those of my right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Health with regard to the government of the metropolis, the removal of nuisances, and the preservation
 76 77
 MR. OTWAY  said, he wished to ask a question of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, with reference to the Sunday Trading Bill. He might state, that there had been a considerable manifestation of feeling
 159
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it was not his intention, if his noble Friend (Lord R. Grosvenor) should persevere with the Bill, to offer any opposition to the House going into Committee upon it; but when it was in Committee he should state his opinion, as he had already done, in reference to any Amendments that might be proposed.
 MR. GIBSON  said, he would beg to ask the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary, whether the House were distinctly to understand that the Government assumed no responsibility whatever with respect to this measure?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Bill was not a Government measure, but it had been introduced by the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex (Lord R. Grosvenor), and supported, he believed, by almost all the metropolitan Members. [ Cries of
 MR. MASSEY  said, he wished to inquire whether the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex intended to persevere with the Bill?
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, he had no objection to reply to the hon. Gentleman's question, but he hoped the House would indulge him by allowing him to do so at some length. He supposed that the hon. Gentleman had put the question in consequence of what had passed in Hyde Park last Sunday. He begged to inform the House that since that meeting took place he had received several letters from working men in which they spoke of
 160
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the noble Lord was certainly not in order, but he had appealed in commencing his reply, to the indulgence of the House. An hon. Member, however, having taken an objection to the noble Lord's proceedings, who was not strictly in order, he should suggest to the noble Lord to postpone his observations till the Bill came before the House.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR , in reply to the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Massey), said the responsibility of the Bill did not rest with him, but with the House, and he did intend to press it.
 MR. CARD WELL  said, he had listened with great interest to this debate, and it appeared to him there was one clear meaning that pervaded the House and the Committee—namely, that this Bill should stand on its own merits, to effect its own objects, and that there should be nothing in the Bill that might be pleaded in bar hereafter to any public measure that might be introduced in conformity with the Report of the Commission on the table. Now, they were not a good tribunal for the exact legal definition of different words, and he acknowledged for himself that he felt great difficulty in appreciating the precise difference of the meaning of these two words; but he did not expect, if the House passed this clause as it stood—he did not believe that at a future period his hon. Friend the Member for Liverpool (Mr. Horsfall) would get up in the House of Commons and say, the clause had an effect which they did not intend. He believed that when a measure affecting this subject was brought forward in the House of Commons that measure would receive a full and dispassionate consideration, and that they would utterly ignore the fact that this clause had been inserted in a private Bill. He should be sorry that they should prejudice the understanding by a division, and therefore he thought that his right hon. Friend would do well to accept the clause without a division.
 MR. AYSHFORD WYSE  said, in consequence of the unsatisfactory answer of
 161
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said: My hon. Friend, having brought this matter before the House in a practical shape, has the undoubted right to call upon me to state to the House the views which I entertain upon the subject. I have in consequence given to the subject the best attention, with a view to form an honest opinion upon it, and I am perfectly prepared to state that opinion to the House if I could only understand the course which the House might feel disposed to pursue in dealing with the subject. The first question which arises is, whether the House will deal with the subject immediately, as proposed by the hon. Member for Finsbury, or send the case to a Select Committee. I understand that the latter is the course which is the most proper to be pursued upon the present occasion, and I have had put into my hand a precedent which is immediately in point. It is the case of Mr. Daniel Whittle Harvey, who accepted the office of Registrar of Hackney Carriages. Upon that occasion it was moved that the hon. Member had thereby vacated his seat, and that a new writ should be issued. Upon that Motion an Amendment was moved to the effect that "the papers relating to the appointment of Daniel Whittle Harvey, Esq., to the office of Registrar of Hackney Carriages, be referred to a Select Committee, and that such Committee be directed to report its opinion whether Daniel Whittle Harvey, Esq., has vacated his seat by the acceptance of the said office." That Amendment was agreed to, the Committee was appointed to take the papers into its consideration for the purpose of reporting to the House upon the subject, and in due time it did so report. Now it is a serious question whether that would not be the correct course to pursue in the present instance. Upon the best consideration which I have been enabled to give to the subject, I think the Statute is tolerably clear though not altogether free from doubt. There may be some parts of the clause which carry some degree of ambiguity, but these are not of sufficient force to override the general purport of the Statute. But there are one or two circumstances deserving of consideration in connection with this subject. In the first place, I am told that since the passing of the Contractors Bill, although a vast number of contracts for loans have been made by the Government, in almost every one of which some Member or Members of this
 168
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that, as the Motion now stood, it stated that the contract had been entered into by Baron Lionel Nathan de Rothschild, though there was nothing on the face of the contract to show that such was the case.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I think the question just put to me is a proof of the inconvenience of discussing this question in its present form. I did not mean to state that it was not Baron Lionel Nathan de Rothschild who had virtually entered into this contract with the Government, but my remark merely applied to the wording of the Motion which states Baron Lionel Nathan de Rothschild entered into the contract with the Government, of which there was no evidence on the face of the contract.
 MR. HENRY BERKELEY  having presented petitions from places in Somersetshire and Gloucestershire, for the repeal of the Sunday Beer Bill, said—Sir, I am about to ask this House to appoint a Select Committee to inquire into the Act of last Session for the further regulation of
 183 184 185 bonâ fide 186 "On Sunday, April 23, the landlord of the Angel Inn, Sutton, had his brother and sister to see him from London. As they were having supper, preparatory to their return journey, at about twenty minutes past ten o'clock, two policemen knocked at the door of the house and were admitted. After looking into the parlour, and such public rooms, they walked into the private apartment of the landlord, where the family were at supper. Seeing two decanters of wine on the table, they departed, and on Friday the master of the house had to appear at the Epsom Court, and was fined
10 s., s. 187 "The operation of the Sunday Beer Bill in Liverpool and neighbourhood is of a very contradictory and oppressive character, and numerous informations have been laid against licensed victuallers for infringing it. The Act is carried out very stringently at Liverpool, and great inconvenience, is experienced here in consequence of it, from the circumstance that a vast number of strangers are constantly arriving from, and departing for various parts of the world, by ship, rail, or steamer; and passengers are continually refused admission into the houses of licensed victuallers, who would have informations laid against them, and they would then be put to the trouble and expense of proving that their guests had been  bonâ fide 188 bonâ fide bonâ fide 189 ebrii, vino cibo que gravati l. s. ———"Handy, dandy, Which is the justice, and which is the thief?" 190 "A return of persons taken into custody by the police for drunkenness from twelve o'clock on the Saturday night previous to Whit Sunday, and up to eleven o'clock on Whit Monday, 1854, obtained by Mr. Stephens, chief of police, Birmingham, from the chiefs of police of ten of the largest towns in England, including, according to the census of 1851, a population of 1,414,403 souls. The return was made at the request of Mr. Joseph
 191 
 
 In 1854— In 1855— 
 In 1854—Birmingham 5  In 1855—Birmingham 6 
 In 1854—Bristol 6  In 1855—Bristol 6 
 In 1854—Bath 0 In 1855—Bath 2 
 In 1854—Bradford 1 In 1855—Bradford 0 
 In 1854—Hull 1 In 1855—Hull 3 
 In 1854—Leicester 2 In 1855—Leicester 2 
 In 1854—Leeds 4 In 1855—Leeds 2 
 In 1854—Liverpool 51 In 1855—Liverpool 87 
 In 1854—Nottingham 0 In 1855—Nottingham 3 
 In 1854—Sheffield  15 In 1855—Sheffield 7 
 Total, 85 Total, 118 Examiner "These Bills ought not to be called measures for the better observance of the Sabbath, but for the 'bitter' observance of the Sabbath." "Hanging of his cat on Monday, For killing of a mouse on Sunday," Household Words, 192
 MR. HENRY BERKELEY  said, he must beg to explain that it was never stated that the Bill was brought in by the upper classes, but that it had the effect of creating a difference between the upper and lower classes.
 MR. HENRY BERKELEY  said, he thought the hon. Member for Finsbury entertained a wrong estimate of the character of the House of Commons when he stated that fifteen gentlemen could not be obtained to inquire into a matter so important as the present during the prevalence of the dog-days. He believed the Committee could make a short Report, and the grievance would be alleviated.
 GENERAL WYNDHAM  said, he was desirous of bringing under the consideration of the House the state of the supply of troop and artillery horses, and the effect of the duties levied on stage carriages and omnibuses in diminishing the supply of
 210
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Cocker mouth divides itself into two portions. In the first part he proposes "to bring under the consideration of the House the state of the supply of troop and artillery horses, and the effect of the duties levied on stage carriages and omnibuses in diminishing the supply of useful and seasoned horses suitable for the army, and in discouraging the breed of horses generally." With respect to that
 212 d d d d d. d. d. d., l l 213 l l., 214 l l.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER :
 217
 MR. MILES  said, that the question of concessions made at Manchester had alone been referred to by the hon. Gentleman; but he understood that a similar concession had been made in the metropolis to Messrs. Chaplin and Horne, and he did not understand why they should not be placed on
 218
 MR. E. ELLICE  said, he hoped that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would yield to the Motion. The hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Treasury had referred to the case of the Lakes districts in England; but in parts of Scotland it was the summer traffic alone which could remunerate the innkeepers for keeping post-horses, and yet in their case no exemption had been made.
 COLONEL DUNNE  seconded the Amendment.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he objected to, he Committee as nominated, on the ground that there were only six Irish Members upon it.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, if the clause of the Bill fully carried out the views of the Committee, and also the wishes of the Board of Trade, he would support it; but believing that the corporation of Liverpool had out-generaled both the Board of Trade and the Committee, he considered it his duty, on the part of the public, to see that the intentions of the Board of Trade were fully carried out, and that without any ambiguity of expression; therefore he should
 156
 LORD J. MANNERS  said, the House was aware that all the forts on the Circassian coast were now in the possession of the Circassians, and that throughout the conferences at Vienna no mention was made of Circassia. The last despatch of Admiral Lyons stated that Mr. Longworth had been sent to Anapa to superintend the political part of the question. He wished to ask in what capacity Mr. Longworth had been sent to Anapa, and what were the relations at present subsisting between Her Majesty's Government and the Circassian chiefs?
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that an hon. Member had been prevented from referring to a debate which had taken place on a previous night, and now the hon. Member for Finsbury wished an implied declaration which had been made in that House to be taken as the ground for their proceeding on the question before them. He (Lord J. Russell) thought that they had better proceed on the papers which were before the House.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, if all the Members of this House were as learned as the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just addressed the House, or as my hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General, it might, perhaps, be proper for the House to come at once to a decision upon this subject upon the best consideration which it was able to give to the question. But I must put in a claim on behalf of the great body of the Members of this House who have not that learning which the hon. and learned Member for Stamford (Sir F. Thesiger) possesses. When the hon. and learned Gentleman says that if we make laws we ought further to be able to interpret them, I think he goes rather beyond what is a fair claim on the Members of this House. I confess for one, that if after a law were passed any one should ask me to give a legal interpretation of it, I should decline to do so, on the ground of my inability, and should refer him to some Member of the legal profession of which the hon. and learned Gentleman is so great an ornament. What appears to me to be a difficulty in this case is, that many years ago since this Act was passed numerous instances have occurred of persons contracting loans without the subject having been brought to the notice of this House, or their having been alleged to hare forfeited their seats thereby. Now, it is quite true to say that a blot is not a blot until it is hit; but let the House take a case in point as an instance. There was the Royalty Loan of 1797; great numbers of the Members of the House of Commons were concerned in that loan. Mr. Sheridan said on that occasion that those hon. Members came forward for the purpose of profit. Mr. Pitt said that it was not so; but he afterwards
 173
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had admitted that this was a falling revenue, and he believed it was universally the case that a partial remission of taxation in such an instance was attended with benefit to the revenue. There was one point in respect of which he was anxious to have an explanation from his right hon. Friend. The deputation which had recently waited upon the Chancellor of the Exchequer represented their grievances to him, and it was understood that all those grievances were alike. Judge, then, of their astonishment on finding afterwards that this duty had been remitted in the case of three firms at Manchester, while throughout the whole omnibus trade of London not one single halfpenny had been remitted. He should be glad to know the grounds upon which this distinction has been drawn?
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I would observe that this is no new grievance. This question has been brought before the House on previous occasions, and I am sure it has been brought under the consideration of former Chancellors of the Exchequer. Now I want to know in what way redress can be obtained for a grievance which all admit to be a real grievance, because it is not founded upon merely momentary circumstances. In what manner can this question ever be brought to a satisfactory issue unless the House takes it up? We have had deputations for years, represented from both sides of the House, and we have had those representations sympathised with by those who have had official responsibility, and, notwithstanding the remarkable opportunities which have occurred during the last few years for adjusting the balance of taxation, no redress has been afforded in this particular instance. When in office I felt myself it was a case which demanded attention at the earliest opportunity. The right hon. Gentleman the late Chancellor of the Exchequer publicly acknowledged it was a case demanding attention. Let the House consider the causes alleged by the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the depression of this interest, and consider whether they are temporary or not. They are occasioned by
 215 216 l. l.,
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that last year great complaints were made as to the increase of the printer's bill, which was thought to be a subject worthy of the consideration of the House. Nevertheless, they had already that evening added an item to the bill of next year which he thought scarcely justifiable, while the extreme readiness with which the noble Lord
 209
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he objected to the question put by the hon. Member for Finsbary, which, if it were sanctioned, would place it in the power of a Minister who wished to turn a Member out of his seat to get up and put a question, having previously agreed upon the answer which would be given by one of his supporters, and they all knew how ardent a supporter of the Government was the hon. Member
 182
 MR. DISRAELI  said, it appeared to him that a subject of this nature should be considered with great calmness, and that the House should not rashly adopt any course upon it without due deliberation. Now, what he felt was that they wanted that distinct proof which should be in the possession of the House, and which could be easily obtained, before they could come to a decision on a question of such consequenee. The hon. and learned Solicitor General said that there could be no doubt that Baron Lionel de Rothschild had contracted with Her Majesty's Government, and then he took up a contract, and pointed to it as containing that proof. But he (Mr. Disraeli) was not satisfied on this point; for if that was the only proof that the hon. Member for the City of London had entered into a contract with Her Majesty's Government, the evidence was very imperfect, as the contract bore not the signature of Baron Lionel Nathan de Rothschild, but of N. M. Rothschild and Sons. He thought that the question should be thoroughly proved, and that the House should not be placed in a position of being liable to a doubt on a matter capable of distinct proof. That doubt was in his mind sufficient for inducing him to think that the matter should be referred to a Select Committee. The House had not the proof that the hon. Member for London had entered into a contract with Her Majesty's Government; but, on the contrary, the House had  primâ facie 178
 MR. SPEAKER  in reply, said, that, the notice of Motion which was given by the hon. Member was most irregular, as it stated that it was given for the purpose of calling attention to a speech and statements which had been made on a previous night. If the hon. Member intended to take notice of the speech, he ought to have done so on the night on which it was made, or, at all events, the part of the speech on which it was intended to found proceedings ought to have been taken down at the time; but this had not been done. The hon. Member, no doubt, might refer to that speech in general terms, but he could not do so in the special and particular way of which he had first given notice.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the House could not entertain that question without previous notice having been given.
 MR. C. VILLIERS  said, by the last speaker's test, the regulation of public-houses was not a fit subject for legislation; that might be so, but he thought it was rather late to make the discovery, as that had certainly been the policy in this country for the last four centuries at least, and
 202 203 204
 MR. E. BALL  said, so far as his experience went, he believed the Act at present in operation had been attended with the most beneficial results. Two arguments had, however, been used against the measure which he felt called upon to answer. The first was, that Parliament had no right to legislate in such matters, but should rather leave the moral improvement of the people to the advances of education; and the other was, that all such legislation affected the poor without interfering with the privileges enjoyed by the rich. Now, with respect to the first argument, he would be content to ask, what would be the state of the morals of the people if Parliament was content to leave all such matters to the progress of education? And, with regard to the second, he would simply observe, that if such legislation did not affect the rich, it was just a reason why it should be extended, in order that all classes might be alike subject to its influence.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he thought, if legislation was desirable at all on this subject, the Government should originate it.
 MR. HUTCHINS  said, he should move the omission of the name of Mr. Gordon, which already appeared upon another Committee. It was impossible for one Member to serve on two Committees simultaneously.
 MR. FRENCH  said, if the only reason for objecting to the Motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury was that Baron Rothschild had not taken his seat, and consequently was not in a position to defend himself, he (Mr. French) would remind the House of the case of Mr. O'Connell when elected for Clare, who was allowed to speak from the bar of the House. It was impossible for any one who had looked at the Act of Parliament to get rid of the fact, that any person who entered into a contract for the public service with the Lords of the Treasury thereby vacated his seat. Such was the case brought forward by the hon. Member for Finsbury, and he (Mr. French) could see no ground for the doubt or delay which had been raised by the hon. and learned Attorney General. That hon. and learned Gentleman told the House he had considered the question and was prepared to give his opinion at once if necessary, and it was, therefore, most reasonable that that opinion should be ascertained before the House came to a decision.
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, he felt himself in some difficulty from having to express a different opinion from that enunciated by his right hon. Friend the Member for Midhurst (Mr. Walpole). He should be sorry to disturb precedent, or to adopt any proceeding upon the present occasion different from the course pursued in former similar cases, but he must say that he considered the precedent which had been alluded to was hardly applicable to the present occasion. He apprehended that the House was not in
 170 171 l 172
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he would beg to suggest to the hon. Member for Finsbury that he had better not press his Motion, as it appeared to be the general wish of the House that this matter should be referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he trusted that the Government would bring in a general measure to set at rest the interests of masters and servants, not for one part of the country, nor for one trade, but for all parts of the kingdom, and for all trades.
 MR.GRANVILLE VERNON  said, he was responsible for the clause as it stood. They altered the phrase, "the right of the corporation;" to "any right of the corporation," in order not to prejudice the question. There was no difference of
 157
 MR. BAILLIE  said, he wished to know in what capacity Colonel Lloyd was sent to Circassia last year, at a salary of 2,000 l
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that as Chairman of the Committee, he hoped the House would not allow any alteration to be made which might hazard the passing of this most important Bill. There had been two Bills introduced, the Birkenhead Docks Bill and the Liverpool Docks Bill; the former of which involved works on the Birkenhead side of the river, at an expense of 1,500,000 l l l
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he would now beg to move for leave to bring in a Bill to regulate the employment of females and young persons under eighteen years of age in bleaching, finishing, and dyeing works.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he thought that no hon. Member's appointment would give greater confidence to Ireland than that of the hon. and gallant Member for Port-arlington (Colonel Dunne). There was no Irish Member on his (the Opposition) side of the House nominated for this Committee.
 MR. WILSON  said, he thought that Ireland was fairly represented. He saw no reason why Irish Members should not sit on English Committees, and English Members on Irish Committees. In the present instance there were six Irish representatives and another Member who was intimately connected with Ireland.
 MR. WILSON  said, that the concession made to the people of Manchester was not a peculiar concession made to them; but was an exercise of an unquestionable power given to the Board of Inland Revenue, which had been exercised both before and since it was given to Manchester. For instance, the Board of Inland Revenue compounded for the duty with the proprietors of the stage-coaches which ran in the Lake district for a part of the year only. He did not say that this case was analogous to what had been done in Manchester. All he said was, that what had been done was done by the Board of Inland Revenue on their own authority, and in the exercise of their unquestionable power, and not as some hon. Members seemed to suppose for political purposes.
 MR. BRADY  said, he must express his satisfaction that the Government had consented to the proposed inquiry; but he would most strongly urge the hon. Member for Bristol not to postpone the appointment of the Committee till next Session, for he was convinced that if he did so some new obstacle would then be interposed. It was impossible to stop drunkenness by legislation, because he knew for a certainty that in the low public-houses and coffee-shops of London, spirits could be obtained at all hours of the day and night. He fearlessly asserted that the general and universal opinion of the people of this country was opposed to this measure, and if legislation of such a character were carried to a much greater extent, a feeling would be aroused which it would be difficult to repress. He trusted that the Government therefore would be warned in time.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he wished to ask a question of the noble Lord at the head of the Government. Notwithstanding the assertion of the hon. and learned Member for Stamford (Sir F. Thesiger) it would appear that not even lawyers—those learned in the law—could agree as to the interpretation of the Act; for the Solicitor General, who was a very clever lawyer, and the hon. and learned Member for Stamford who was as able, differed as to its interpretation. He was convinced, therefore, that they would be doing much better by referring the question to a Select Committee. But there was another point—it appeared to him that the time was about to come when the whole of this Act would have to be taken into consideration. It might operate now so as to turn Baron Rothschild out of that House, as it had operated to turn out Sir Samuel Peto some time ago, and recently the hon. Member for Gloucester (Mr. Price) on whose behalf the Bill was brought in to save him from penalties, and then he was re-elected. A few years ago he remembered a Friend of his, Mr. Dixon, was returned for Carlisle; but he did not vote, because he learned that some collieries in which he had a little interest had been supplying a few chaldrons of coal for the use of the barracks at Newcastle and Carlisle. Now, it was well known that there were modes, either by the transferring of contracts or otherwise, of avoiding all difficulties; and he rose for the purpose of suggesting to the noble Lord that whatever might be the issue of the matter with regard to Baron Rothschild, it would be becoming in the Government to take into consideration the question of the Act, with a view of putting it on a more satisfactory
 179
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he thought that it had better be decided at once whether the Committee should be nominated by the hon. Member for Finsbury. [Mr. T. DUNCOMBE: I decline to do so], or by the Attorney General, or by the Committee of Selection.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he should support the Amendment, and he would at the same time remind the House, that the question involved amounted to no less than a matter of 150,000 l
 MR. COBBETT  said, he willingly seconded the Motion, being convinced that inquiry was necessary, and that the Act required revision. The  Manchester Courier 193 Johnson's Dictionary, 194 bonâ fide bonâ fide bonâ fide
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, that it was never intended that the Act should give rise to that difference. It was said that the rich had their clubs, but the poor had not. He had turned his attention to the question of these clubs, but he was assured that they were constituted on such grounds that they could not by any possibility come within the operation of an Act of Parliament. He agreed in the opinion that, if they prevented the sale of liquors to the poor on a Sunday, they should also do so to the rich; but he thought that there had been some exaggeration with regard to the habits of the rich at these clubs. He belonged to one of the most popular clubs in London, situated
 200
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, that from the first he had stated that, when this Act had been allowed time to manifest its operation throughout the country, he would support an inquiry into it, if it were deemed necessary. He was not so bigoted to the measure, though his name
 198 bonâ fide bonâ fide bonâ fide 199
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, he was desirous of stating that the remission of the duty at Manchester had been productive of benefit both to the public and to the revenue.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he must express his satisfaction at the statement he had just heard, and at the decision of the House to grant an inquiry. The question was a very narrow one, for all that the Act did was to shorten by some three hours the time at which public-houses could be kept open, and it prevented publicans from being harassed by informations to which they sometimes rendered themselves liable from not knowing the time of the commencement and the termination of afternoon services. Every one must wish that the truth should be elicited, and he hoped the Committee would be a good one, and would not hurry the matter over. Many statements had been made with regard to the inconvenience caused by the operation of the Act to the people who went upon excursions and took walks upon Sunday, but he much doubted whether the beneficial effects of the measure would not be found to counterbalance any such inconvenience. He believed that the poor were in favour of the measure, and that if the inquiry were fairly conducted it would appear that it had not given rise to much inconvenience. A large portion of the outcry against the Act had been created by an erroneous idea that it had given rise to the difficulty as to the definition of " bonâ fide
 MAJOR REED  said, he rose to move, pursuant to notice, for leave to bring in a Bill
 "For conferring the Elective Franchise upon persons—not being Aliens—who are assessed to the Income Tax, but are not upon the Register of Electors for any part of Great Britain and Ireland." 207 l. l. 208 Cries of 
 MAJOR REED  said, he was extremely obliged to the noble Lord for the kind manner in which he had assented to the proposition.
 MR. MONTAGU CHAMBERS  said, he thought that if they did hot agree to the Amendment, parties who advanced their money might, when Parliament came to deal with the question of town dues, say that they had been unfairly dealt with.
 MR. MALINS  said, that the House would doubtless remember, that yesterday he put a question to the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty, with regard to certain charges made by him against the hon. Member for Tynemouth (Mr. Lindsay) as to his being interested in Government contracts. He (Mr. Malins) then appealed to Mr. Speaker as to whether this did not involve a question of a breach of privilege, and received the answer he had expected—namely, that anything affecting a Member's seat in that House involved a question of a breach of privilege. He then gave notice that he would bring the question before the House
 158 Robert Lowe.
 MR. HILDYARD  said, he could not allow such immorality as had just escaped from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester to pass without notice. The right hon. Gentleman had stated that the Act of Parliament might affect half the Members of that House, and therefore they should be cautious how they acted. Was that the morality of the Manchester school? He had long been of opinion that it was, but he had never heard it so completely and distinctly enunciated before. How different was the nature of those remarks as contrasted with those which fell from the hon. and learned Attorney General. That hon. and learned Gentleman said that it was our bounden duty, without fear or favour, to expound the law, and we were doubly bound to do so in a case where large numbers of that House might be affected. As for the statements of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, he was astonished that he should state in that House that any one who comes into the market to purchase scrip in the new loan becomes thereby a contractor to Government. It was nothing of the kind; all that a purchaser of scrip did was this; he offered to pay a part of the loan or lease the scrip. Such a doctrine laid down by the noble Lord the Member for the City of London particularly surprised him. The Act contemplated that the Government might not only debauch any Member of the House of Commons, but also that any hon. Member having this contract with the Government might use the influence of that contract for the purpose of affecting the proceedings of other hon. Members in the House; and the Act therefore imposed, not disabilities as the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. M. Gibson) had stated, but prohibitions upon the contractor against making such use of their contracts.
 176
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that as the hon. Member for Fiusbury had thrown some doubt on the  bona fides
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he would second the Amendment, because he considered that the matter ought to be investigated by a Select Committee before the House gave any decided opinion on the subject. An instance had occurred of his hon. Friend the Member for Huntingdon (Mr. T. Baring) having entered into a similar contract with the Government in the case of the Irish loan, but no notice whatever was taken of the subject by any hon. Member of the House, for it appeared to be understood that that loan did not come within the terms of the Act. He thought, coupling the fact with the absence of Baron Rothschild from the House, and his consequent
 169
 MR. WALPOLE : I really, Sir, do not think the last observation of the Chancellor of the Exchequer ought to pass unnoticed. Here is a general tax imposed. The people of this country are given to understand that it is to affect a particular class, and a few individuals of that particular class, upon application, are exempted from its operation. I think it is far too serious a question to pass over, and I trust the House will support the Motion of my hon. and gallant Friend.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he regretted the use by the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken of the expression that the promoters of the Bill had out-generaled the Board of Trade. The hon. Gentleman had stated that there was no Opposition in the Committee, but there was a division in the Committee on this very question, and he trusted that the House would support the decision of the Committee. The promoters of this Bill never would have: gone into this undertaking if they had supposed that this clause would be altered in the way proposed in the Amendment.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he was glad it had been decided to have an inquiry on this subject, but still the question remained, when was that inquiry to be? He believed, considering how public opinion was divided upon the matter, that it would be impossible for a Committee fairly to terminate their labours during the present Session; and, even should they do so, no fresh legislation could be devised until the Session following. He should, therefore, advise the postponement of the inquiry. As showing the difference of opinion, and the want of correct information which prevailed upon the matter, the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department had mentioned that he believed, if the entire country could be polled upon the subject, it would be found in favour of the entire closing of public-houses on Sunday, while, according to the return of the petitions which had been presented upon the subject, it appeared there were 358,000 signatures against the present Bill, as opposed to 128,000 in its favour. This contrariety of opinion showed the desirability of dispensing with the inquiry until it could be conducted in the fairest and fullest manner. They would, too, find some difficulty to get fifteen gentlemen to sit out the dog-days upstairs in order to inquire into the matter, while during the summer it would
 206
  MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that yesterday he took the liberty of asking the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General whether, under the provisions of what was commonly called "the Contractors' Act," Baron Rothschild had not vacated his seat for the City of London, by having entered into a contract with Her Majesty's Government for a loan of 16,000,000 l 163 "The contract entered into by Baron Lionel de Rothschild with Her Majesty's Government, on or about the 20th day of April last, for a loan of 16,000,000 l. "For further securing the freedom and independence of Parliament, be it enacted by the King's Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords spiritual and temporal, and Commons in this present Parliament
 164 "And if any person, disabled and declared incapable by this Act to be elected, shall, after the end of this present Session of Parliament, presume to sit or vote as a Member of the House of Commons, such person so sitting or voting shall forfeit the sum of 500 l 165 Geo. 22 Geo. 166
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he begged to inform the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire that, however ardent a supporter he might be of the Government, there had been no collusion between himself and the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the purpose of turning a Member out of that House.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE : But that is no answer to my question. I put a direct and straightforward question, and asked the right hon. Gentleman whether Baron Lionel de Rothschild did not in his presence sign the contract in question.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE : I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether Baron Lionel Nathan de Rothschild did not in his presence sign this contract.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that he was
 181 bonâ fide ad misericordiam
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, my difficulty is to make up my mind whether the disqualifying clauses are to stop with Baron Rothschild. He has admitted a great number of persons, possibly Members of this House, to have shares of this loan, to enjoy what the Act calls the "profits, benefits, and emoluments arising from the same." Now, all these Members enjoy the "profits, benefits, and emoluments" arising from the loan, and, if I have taken a correct view of this Act, they are in jeopardy as well as Baron Rothschild, and it would be competent for him or any other hon. Member, if the House at once agrees
 174 "Be it enacted that in every such agreement, the contract or commission to be made, entered into, or accepted as aforesaid, there shall be inserted the express condition that no Member of the House of Commons be admitted to any share or part of such contract, agreement, commission, or any benefit which may arise therefrom." l l. 175
 MR.MILNER GIBSON : If that is the understanding clearly, that we all mean the same, that Parliament does not mean to prejudice the question of these dues, I will not divide the House.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I wish, Sir, to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government in reference to the recent operations at Kertch and other places in the Sea of Azoff. Grave charges have been made against the character of Englishmen and English officers, which I do not believe, and which, if not true, ought to receive contradiction from the Ministers of the Crown. I have seen the same statement made in private letters and published in the public journals. It is stated in  The Times "When the allies entered Kertch the following morning the population made their submission, and offered bread and salt to the conquerors, in accordance with the Russian custom, and they were assured that they would be protected, and that their lives and property should be spared." "Towards evening Turkish stragglers from the camp, and others who had fallen out of the line of march, flocked into the town, and perpetrated the most atrocious crimes. To pillage and wanton devastation they added violation and murder."
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he wished to move as an Amendment the insertion of the words "such dues and such right," to prevent ambiguity in a clause which had been inserted, in order to preclude the question of the Liverpool town dues from being affected by the Bill. A Commission had been engaged in inquiring into the local dues levied upon ships and goods in various parts of England; and doubtless it was the intention of Parliament to legislate on the subject. The Board of Trade had likewise recommended that, in any Bill of this kind, for the amalgamation of the Liverpool and Birkenhead Docks, an object no doubt of great public utility, care should be taken that Parliament should not be fettered in dealing freely with any dues which were now levied, inasmuch as those dues would become security for the money to be raised under the Bill. The Select Committee upon the Bill, in their Report, stated that the question of the Liverpool town dues had only come incidentally before them, as a portion of the existing revenues of the corporation. The Board of Trade sent down a clause, which they advised to be inserted, "that nothing contained or to be done under the provisions of this Act shall be held to prevent any dues now forming part of the borough fund being dealt with by Parliament." The Committee, however, instead of accepting that clause, inserted another, which the counsel for the Liverpool corporation had so drawn up as if what it was sought to guarantee were the power of the courts of law to judge of the title of the Liverpool corporation to these dues. Now, that was not the real issue; and as great public interests were
 155
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he very much regretted that the right hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) had thought it necessary to move this Amendment. The right hon. Gentleman forgot that the Bill was before the Committee three months, and it was after full consideration that they adopted the clause. The clause was of that importance, that the promoters were advised that if the Amendment were carried it would be fatal to the Bill. [Mr. M, GIBSON: Why?] Because they felt that if it were carried, they must withdraw the Bill. [Mr. M. GIBSON: Why?] Because it would prejudice the rights of the corporation of Liverpool. The object of the Committee was to insert a clause which should not prejudge the rights of the corporation, and he therefore asked the House to support the clause which the Committee had framed for that Object.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he must complain of the systematic exclusion of Irish Members from important Committees and offices of high trust. It was notorious that there was not a single Irishman in the Cabinet, and that, with one exception, there had been no Irish Member on the Sebastopol Committee. That one Irishman had been withdrawn, and was no party to the preparation of the Report. As a general rule they were shut out from everything of importance, and if they possessed a particle of talent they were certain to be excluded.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he was surprised that the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. I. Butt) did not recognise on the Committee the names of the hon. Member who sat next him (Mr. Maguire) and the hon. Member behind him, the Chairman (Mr. Meagher). He also denied that there were no other Irish Members in whom the public would have confidence but the hon. and gallant Member for Portarlington.
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  said, he rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the adulteration of food, drinks, and drugs. Adulteration had so greatly increased of late years that some inquiry was absolutely necessary; but if fraud had increased so as to outstrip existing legislation, the means of detecting fraud had been still more increased by the knowledge which had been acquired of organic chemistry. A gentleman who had been a Member of that House, Mr. Wakley, to whom the public owed a debt of gratitude, had made some startling disclosures with regard to the adulteration which took place, although in the course of that task he was subjected to various annoyances, and even to threats of personal violence, and some of the details which that gentleman had published were well worthy of attention. He could adduce numerous and startling instances of the adulterations in food, &c., which wore practised, but he would content himself with giving the House a few samples
 219 materia medica
 MR. WILKINSON  said, he must assert that this was not a fit subject for
 201
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he felt convinced that the present duty was highly injurious to the omnibus proprietors, and he thought that great relief would be afforded to the public by the removal of the present high taxes upon horses. He trusted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would give his best attention to the subject with a view to the repeal of the duty. It was not only injurious to the omnibus proprietors, but, by diminishing the number of omnibuses, entailed upon the public serious inconvenience.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to ask the First Lord of the Treasury whether in compliance with the vote of that House on the 22nd of May, the Government intended to carry into effect the recommendations of the Select Committee of 1850 respecting official salaries?
 MR. OTWAY  said, he also must complain of the system of selecting Members to serve on Committees generally. Having expressed himself desirous of serving on the Committee on the military education of Sandhurst College, he was told that he must make friends with the right hon. Member for Wells (Mr. Hayter) if he really wished to be appointed; but he had declined to do anything of the kind. Young Members like the hon. Member for Beverley
 221
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that notwithstanding the Bill was founded on the Report of a Committee, the Report was a long one recently made, and he knew there would be considerable opposition to the Bill. He would not, however, object to its introduction, on the understanding that it should not be brought under discussion at an early day, nor without due notice.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that after the revelations that had taken place on the subject it deserved to be inquired into, but he doubted whether the inquiry could be completed during the present Session.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he did not concur in all the opinions that had been expressed by the hon. gentleman the Member for Bristol (Mr. H. Berkeley), nor was he prepared to admit the force of all the arguments on which he had founded his
 195 exparte 196 bonâ fide 197
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he rejoiced that there was a prospect of a full and fair inquiry. He had no doubt the result would show that the people at large were in favour of some such restriction as had been imposed. Much of the unpopularity of the measure arose from the use of the unfortunate term " bonâ fide 205
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  seconded the Motion. He believed that, while the duty on railways had been reduced from 5 to 3½ per cent, that upon stage-coaches was now something like 15 per cent. The railway was taxed upon its earnings, whereas the coach proprietor was taxed by mileage, whether his vehicle took its full complement of passengers or none. Now, where such competitions existed as there was between railways and coaches, the burden borne by both ought certainly to be the same. In addition to railways, however, these omnibuses had to meet the direct competition of cabs, in the duty upon which the House of Commons, last year, had made a great reduction, the result being that, while cabs had increased, omnibuses had diminished in number, and the revenue was falling off in the same proportion. He thought it behaved the Chancellor of' the Exchequer to consider whether the same privilege should not be granted to the omnibus proprietors here which had been granted to certain parties in Manchester, where the duty had been reduced from three-halfpence to one penny per mile. Believing that the loss to the revenue would be nothing like that which
 211
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, he fully concurred with the bon. Member for North Lancashire (Mr. W. Patten) in opinion that the impression prevailing out of doors that this was an aristocratic question, and one on which the upper classes were desirous of legislating against the lower, was most erroneous. On the contrary, he had the fullest conviction that the principal promoters of this kind of legislation were to be found in the ranks of the middling and lower orders; and among the most honest and sincerely religious portion of the community. Nevertheless, he concurred in what had fallen from the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Wilkinson), that in attempting to legislate on the subject now under discussion, the House was departing from its proper functions, and he believed that when they tried to regulate all the moral habits of society they would not only fail in the attempt, but would bring about a reaction unfavourable to the object they had in view. He thought that objection applied strongly to the Act, the operation of which was now about to be referred to a Select Committee, as well as to other Bills drawn up in a similar spirit, and he could not help hoping that the House would pause before proceeding further in a course of legislation which would alienate the feelings of a large portion of the population, without tending to promote the ultimate success of the meritorious objects contemplated by the authors of such measures.
 THE SOLICITOR-GENERAL  said, he wished the House to observe that it was dealing with a Statute which had not been enforced or applied for a long space of years. It was reasonable to suspect, therefore, some impediment or obstacle in the way of its application. If any Gentleman were bold enough to pledge himself to the opinion that the law had not been affected by any of our legislation subsequent to 1782, he might be competent to pronounce upon this question at once; but he (the Solicitor General) could not be so confident. The mistake committed by the right hon. Member for Midhurst (Mr. Walpole) should teach him to be more diffident, for when he said that in the latter part of the section the first alternative was intended to apply to persons who, under a contract made by others, supplied money to be remitted abroad for wares or merchandise for the Government, he entirely forgot that it contained these words, "in pursuance of any such agreement, contract, or commission which he or they shall have made or entered into as aforesaid;" so that it was impossible to apply this to a contract made by another; and it was confined to the same contract before mentioned. There might be a question as to whether the second alternative did not put a certain interpretation upon the first, and prevent us from arriving at the conclusion that merely entering into the contract, where nothing might have been done to fulfil it, was a sufficient disqualification. Another hon. and learned Gentleman had spoken of the Act of Parliament as if it did not at all apply to any individual Member of the House who had taken a part of the contract, but the words of the Act were express upon that point—"Any one who has been admitted to a part or share." He (the Solicitor General) would beg the House to remember that it was dealing with a Statute which had not been enforced upon similar grounds for more than
 177
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he was informed that in February, during the tremendous frost, the omnibus proprietors of London made application for a month's concession of the boon granted to the Manchester proprietors, and were refused.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, he considered it absurd to appoint Committees and introduce new Bills, when the massacre of the innocents had commenced.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he considered it premature to object to Mr. Gordon's nomination. If that Gentleman were a fit person to act on this Committee he should be elected; and then, when the second Committee came to be appointed, his name might be struck out of it if necessary.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he wished to remind the House that this modification of the duties in the case of Manchester had not been made by the Treasury, but by the Board of Inland Revenue, and therefore it was a mistake to call upon his hon. Friend the Secretary to the Treasury to explain the grounds of an arrangement which was not made by the department to which he belonged. With regard to the question before the House, it must be admitted that the duty stood in a somewhat unsatisfactory condition, because, whether rightly or wrongly, modifications had been made which placed different places on different footings. Seeing, therefore, that the Government had the authority of the House to take the matter into their consideration, with a view to the modification of the existing duties, he was not disposed to oppose the Motion.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the hon. and gallant Gentleman will, I do not doubt, admit that it is rather late in the Session to bring in a Bill on a subject of this kind, especially as the Bill takes under its scope one part of a very large question that has excited a considerable variety of opinion in this House. However, the hon. and gallant Member, in bringing in this Bill, probably only desires to state his own opinion and to submit it to the consideration of Parliament, and does not expect this Session to carry his Bill to a conclusion in this House. Without, therefore, being so discourteous as to offer any opposition to the hon. and gallant Member on the terms he has proposed, I must say that I do not think his Bill is very likely to be adopted. At the same time, I do not at all mean to imply that when an extension of the suffrage comes to be considered, some extension to the suffrage, in proportion to direct taxation, may not be a very fair subject of consideration. The hon. and gallant Gentleman seems, however, to have selected as a test of qualification an interest that, whatever may be anticipated as likely to happen from the course of events, is not one which, in its nature, is likely to be permanent. Under these circumstances, so far as I am concerned, I shall not offer any obstacle to the hon. and gallant Gentleman in bringing in the Bill.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he thought that what had fallen from different Members in the course of the debate showed that it would be expedient to refer the question to a Select Committee. If they had to discuss the application of a law which had been invariably applied in similar cases, and upon the interpretation of which no doubt could arise, there would be no necessity for a Select Committee. If they had a case in which a distinct application of the law was clear, and that on the interpretation of the law no doubt could arise—if hon. Members could get up and say that in consequence of an hon. Member's accepting an office under the Crown there was no doubt about the vacating of his seat, in such a case the House might proceed to a direct decision. But this was a case of a different nature. Many hon. Members were of opinion that there was no doubt as to the application of the Act; but there were others who might entertain considerable doubts on the subject. He himself was not prepared to express any opinion, but he thought that it was a question which was open to argument both ways, more especially when they considered the extensive collateral application of the Act which might flow through
 180
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, Her Majesty's Government have received no information with regard to the transaction to which my hon. Friend's question relates, but my attention has been called to the statement he has quoted from a newspaper, and my noble Friend at the head of the War Department will, without any delay, call for a report touching these transactions from the officer commanding in the Sea of Azoff.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, Mr. Longworth was Her Majesty's consul at Monastir; he had appointed that Gentleman when he held the office of Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, in consequence of his having passed a great deal of time in the country, and being well acquainted with its manners, habits, and language. When an operation upon Anapa was contemplated, it was expected that the Circassian tribes would co-operate with the allies, and Mr. Longworth, being well acquainted with the people, was sent as an organ of communication between the allied commanders and those tribes. There were no relations subsisting between Her Majesty's Government and the Circassian chiefs, except those arising out of their co-operation in the attack upon Anapa.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, in reply, that Colonel Lloyd was appointed to go to Circassia to open communication with the people, and to ascertain to what extent and upon what terms their co-operation could be obtained.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the recommendations of that Committee were maturely considered by the Government at the time—many of them were carried into effect, some were not, and explanations on the subject were then given to Parliament. What had passed on a former evening did not at all touch the question of official salaries, for the discussion turned entirely upon certain diplomatic appointments, and the salaries attached to some of those appointments. The resolution was carried, although the hon. Gentleman who had proposed it announced his intention of withdrawing it, by one of those surprises which sometimes took place when no one expected a division. He could only say, that he thought the regulations suggested in the speech of the hon. Gentleman who moved the Resolution could not be carried into effect without great injury to the public service.
 THE MARQUESS OF BLANDFORD  said, that in moving the second reading of the Bill, he hoped the House would take its principle into consideration, not withstanding the late period of the Session, on account of its great importance, although there might not be much prospect of its being passed into a law during the present
 222 223 l. 224 Vict, status, "There is one case I should wish to bring before the Commissioners, and I think it is a very strong one as illustrating my view, that where a division takes place, it tends to facilitate the collection of the rates. I allude to the parish of Stoke-upon-Trent, one of the largest in England. Some years ago that parish was divided; the Act of Parliament under which it was divided was the 47th of  Geo. 225 Will. "How many marriages have you of a Sunday?—Sometimes as many as sixty." "I presume the Commissioners are to understand, when you say from 124 to 312, with reference to banns, you only mean for a single time?—The gross number of banns published on the 2nd of January, 1848, was 124." "Can you state to the Commissioners the number of baptisms?—In 1847, 4,269; in 1848, 4,652; and from the 1st of January this year to the 24th of June, 2,208," "Is the whole ceremony gone through?—No; it is anything but solemnly performed on account of the numbers. The clergy used their best endeavours, and we have four apparitors present to preserve order." "How are the fees paid, and where are they demanded?—The sacrament of baptism is administered on Sunday after the evening service, and usually commences about 5·30. The mothers, with their infants, are admitted into the chapel adjoining the chancel. Those having male children are placed on one side, and those with females on the other, the sponsors standing behind. The service is read by one of the officiating ministers present. The responses are made by the clerk and a few of the sponsors in the immediate vicinity of the clergyman. The ceremony of baptising then begins; one minister takes the boys and another the girls; but before the conclusion of the words that are repeated to all, there exists a scene of confusion and noise not consistent with so solemn an ordinance; the children crying and the mothers in vain endeavouring to appease them; some talking, others walking, notwithstanding the efforts of the four apparitors. It ought to be stated that prior to the baptismal service, and during the general service, many of the parents and sponsors resort to a public house adjoining the church, where they may be seen drinking and smoking; those who are unable to write out in proper form the paper required to be given to the clerk for registration are here furnished with a form in consideration of the parties paying a small sum of money or taking a glass of liquor. The writer was shocked to witness these scenes on Sunday last at the Black Boy public house, whither he resorted with one of his colleagues. Some of the men who stated that they were about to become sponsors were under the influence of the drink they had taken." 226 "Yes; two or three reasons that I would simply refer to, and one is, the great objection and opposition that arises to the payment of double fees, where double fees are exacted from those new districts. The people have been at great expense to build the churches, and yet they find they cannot enjoy from their own clergymen the various offices of the Church. Their associations naturally lead them to call upon their new minister for burials, marriages, and other offices, but they cannot have them without paying double fees. "I may add, that I so dislike the system of double fees, that I think they ought never to be endured, except when the poverty of the mother church renders it necessary. …. The case was different at Rotherhithe, and I have been able not only to give the clergymen the fees in their districts, but also every fee they could take at their church, leaving to myself any fees that came to my church; then you see the people do as they like, and the fees at the district churches are beginning to be very considerable, and, strange to say, mine have not diminished very much at present, and I believe it is the parochial division that has worked up the thing." "Small a matter as it may appear, yet it is a practical inconvenience to a district minister never to be able to speak of his parishioners. It creates an invidious distinction which has in it no
 227 Vict., status. 228 "The district was assigned under the late Sir Robert Peel's Act. Its boundaries are the river Thames and the New Cut, Cornwall Road, and Broad Wall, and it has a population of 8,000 souls. When I came here, five years ago, there was no place of worship of any kind whatever, and only a small ragged school; since then the Ragged School house in Windmill Street has been built; the temporary church in Thomas Street and the Ragged Church in Windmill Street have been opened; Sunday schools, a district visiting society, a clothing society, a maternal society, a young men's society, a provident fund, cottage lectures, and Bible classes have been established. … Reviewing our work, while, on the one hand, we have many shortcomings, infirmities, and deficiencies to humble us, yet, on the other, we have abundant reason to thank God and take courage. The Divine blessing has graciously rested upon our endeavours. This is seen in the improved physical, social, and moral condition of the people, in the kind reception which the clergy and their assistants universally meet with, in the readiness shown by the people to receive religious instruction, in over-crowded schools, in the number of outcast boys got into refuges, fallen females into asylums, persons living in fornication married; in the evidence which many give of real conversion to God; in the large number of district visitors, Sunday and week-night teachers, and in the general interest which has been awakened in the minds of the people; so that we have reason to believe that many hundreds would attend church if they had the opportunity." Burn's Ecclesiastical Law. jus patronatus 229 Will. l. Vict., l. l., l.
 THE MARQUESS OF BLANDFORD  said, he begged to thank the House for their patient consideration of his measure, and, as he was anxious to conciliate their favour in its behalf, he would adopt the offer made by the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary on the part of Her Majesty's Government; and upon their dis-
 237 Geo.
 MR. COWPER  said, he thought the hon. Member for Southwark (Mr. Pellatt) was not justified in supposing that there was anything in the Bill to which a conscientious Dissenter could have any object-
 236
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he did not doubt the good intentions and worthy objects of the noble Marquess, but he must take exception to the mode in which the noble Marquess proposed to carry his
 234
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he would advise the noble Lord to accept the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, for it was quite impossible to legislate upon the subject without previous inquiry. He quite approved of the object of the Bill; but the object was one thing, and the sanctioning of the machinery proposed to carry it out was a different question. The statement of the noble Lord in moving the second reading evinced not only his sincerity, but the amount of reading he had bestowed on Acts of Parliament bearing on the subject; but he still thought that it would be better that the Bill should undergo the investigation of a Select Committee. He, therefore, hoped the Bill would be withdrawn now with the view of renewing it next Session, when there would be ample time for considering its details.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he must assent, that the subject was too large to be dealt with by an independent Member, considering at the same time that the Church Building Act would shortly expire, and the Government would be bound to take the question up. Of what use then was it for the noble Lord to trouble himself further in the matter, seeing that he could not mature his plans before the time would have arrived when Government would have no alternative but to take it out of his hands. His objection,  in limine,
 MR. STANHOPE  said, that the hon. and learned Member for Dungarvan (Mr. Maguire) had complained of the want of a library and of an infirmary, and of the dilapidated state of the college generally. Now, he (Mr. Stanhope) did not think that that description of the institution was very encouraging to them to continue this grant, for some five years ago there were 30,000 l. l. l. 263 264 265
 MR. MAGUIRE :  * 239 240 "The other speaker, after expatiating on the 'love which is the fulfilling of the law,' thus illustrates his Christian conception of it:—'Some-
 241 242 "After mature deliberation, we are firmly convinced that this measure which I now propose, is nothing more than a liberal construction of those obligations, which, in point of honour and faith, are imposed on the legislature of this kingdom." "This measure is, I trust, conceived in a liberal and confiding spirit. We have not introduced it without consulting with the leading ecclesiastical authorities in the Roman Catholic Church. It has not been a subject of stipulation or contract with them." "When England reformed herself, purified her own faith, and separated from the Church of Rome, she carried with her, as she had a right to do, the endowments of the national religion; for the people—the great majority of them—stood in these convictions, and the church property rightfully went along with them. But was that the case with Ireland? Did the people of that country share in the general movement towards a Reformation; and was the church property transferred by reason of it? Was not the contrary notoriously the case? Was not the church property
 243 244 245 Butler's Catechism, Q. What are the duties of subjects to the temporal powers?—A. To be subject to them, and to honour and obey them, not only for wrath, but also for conscience sake; for so is the will of God. 1 Pet.; Rom. xiii. Q. Does the Scripture require any other duty
 246 Q,. Is it sinful to resist or combine against the established authorities, or to speak with contempt or disrespect of those who rule over us?—A. Yes: St. Paul says, Let every soul be subject to the higher powers; he that resisteth the power resisteth the ordinance of God; and they that resist, purchase to themselves damnation. Rom. xiii. "We take it, in fact, as a first principle of morality—it is an axiom with us in the same way as the duty we owe to our parents; and therefore we do not repeat the inculcation of it so frequently, because that would almost imply a doubt of its manifest obligation." "That a Catholic would deem the case impossible, for he could not suppose the Pope capable of such an absurdity. If you suppose the decree given in the present circumstances of the country, it would be of no force, as being manifestly founded in error; but I again protest against
 247 I must again answer by protesting against the supposition. Such are not the circumstances which to a Catholic mind would justify rebellion. If the case occurred, I would simply conclude that the Pope had gone mad." "Are there no circumstances under which the Pope could release a citizen from his oath of allegiance?—Dr. Moriarty: Most emphatically I say none." "They were always enforced upon me without any distinction, whether the Sovereign was a Protestant or a Roman Catholic. I never had any distinction made me by my professor." "Did you ever understand that, by reason of a Sovereign being a heretic, he was not entitled to the allegiance of his subjects?—I heard that, but I did not believe it. It is not the doctrine of the Roman Catholic Church. That was not the doctrine taught, nor is it the doctrine of the Roman Catholic Church." 248 Butler's Catechism, Q. Is it ever lawful to swear?—A. It is; when God's honour, our own, or our neighbour's good, or necessary defence, require it. Q. What do you mean by an unjust oath?—A. An oath injurious to God, to ourselves, or to our neighbours. Q. Is a person obliged to keep an unjust oath?—A. No; he sinned in taking it, and would sin also in keeping it. Q. Is a person obliged to keep a lawful oath?— A. Yes; and it would be perjury to break it. Q. What is perjury?—A. To break a lawful oath, or take a false one. Q. Is perjury a great sin?—A. It is a most grievous sin. "The doctrine taught by me is, that an oath pledged to, or a contract made with, a heretic by a Roman Catholic, is of equal validity and of equal obligation with an oath pledged to, or a contract made with, a Roman Catholic in the same matter." "The doctrine always held and taught by me is, that an oath pledged to, or a contract made with, a heretic or any other person, whether baptised or unbaptised, is of equal validity and equal obligation, with an oath pledged to, or a contract made with, a Roman Catholic in the same matter. Moreover, I hold this not as a private opinion, not as a doctrine that appears to me more probable, but which others are free to reject. I hold it as absolutely certain, the opposite of which no theologian is at liberty to maintain." "I teach that each of them is of equal validity, and of equal obligation, with an oath pledged to,
 249 "The Pope has no power to change the dictates of natural justice. He cannot release any one from the obligation of a valid contract with injury to a third party. The civil authority may, for reasons of public policy, rescind, even with prejudice to a third party, a valid contract—but the Pope cannot." "Q. To how many commandments may the ten commandments be reduced?—A. To these two principal commandments, which are the two great precepts of charity: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with thy whole heart, and with thy whole soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind, and thy neighbour as thyself: This do, and thou shalt live. Luke x.; Mark xii. "Q. And who is my neighbour? Luke x. 29.—A. Mankind of every description, and without any exception of persons, even those who injure us, or differ from us in religion. "Q. How am I to love my neighbour as myself?—A. As you would, says Christ, that men should do to you, do you also to them in like manner. Luke vi. 31. "Q. What particular duties are required of me by that rule?—A. Never to injure your neighbour by word or deed, in his person, property, or character; to wish well to him, and to pray for him, and always to assist him, as far as you are able, in his spiritual and corporal necessities. "Q. Am I also obliged to love my enemies?—A. Most certainly; Love your enemies, says Christ, do good to them that hate you, bless them that curse you, and pray for them that persecute and calumniate you. Luke vi.; Matt, vi." 250 Rev. D. L. Brasbie.—Had you a Testament or a Bible given to you when you entered the College? Rev. Mr. Brasbie.—Yes; every student on the establishment was furnished with one, and a commentary from the College. Every student in the establishment got a copy of Coyne's Bible, and of Menochius. Butler's General Catechism 251 "Reverend and dear Sir,—We beg to assure you that we shall ever bear in mind with the liveliest gratitude those instructions which, Sunday after Sunday, you have so earnestly inculcated on our hearts, the love of God above all things—the love of our neighbour as ourselves; good will and kindly feeling towards our fellow man of whatever country, or clime, or creed he may be—fidelity to the obligations which bind us to our Sovereign—obedience to our superiors, and an undying attachment to the One, Holy, Catholic, and Apostolic Church." "Do you think, from your knowledge of the Irish people, that many things which it may be necessary to teach with reference to ministerial duties in other countries, are not necessary to be taught in Ireland?"—"I think so, certainly; I am decidedly of that opinion. I think that the people of Ireland are as moral a people as may be found in any part of the world." 252 Catholic Directory 253 "I do not form my opinions from the class-books, because I consider that when I lecture upon a subject, it is my duty to ascertain, not what a man teaches, but what is true and what is false. I lecture according to what I believe, without reference to the peculiar opinions of the class-book in question." "The public do not understand the degree of freedom which, in the schools of Catholic theology, we enjoy in relation to the works which we employ as our text-books. We do not consider ourselves bound to hold—except in those matters which are of faith, or closely connected therewith—the doctrine laid down in a text-book. On the contrary, in many cases, I have known the professor's lecture to consist in disproving the doctrine which is laid down in the text-book." 254 l., 255 "The old infirmary, chapel and examination hall, too small for their purposes before 1845, are utterly unable to accommodate the now largely augmented numbers; and the Commissioners of Public Works felt necessitated, by the insufficiency of funds at their disposal, to cancel the provision for a new chapel,  aula maxima, 256 "Some parts of the new buildings are so damp that they cannot be safely inhabited. Amongst these are the otherwise fine apartments of the Vice-President, through which the rain water has been flowing for the last two winters, so as to drip through the flooring on the hall beneath. The wood-work is in some places beginning to exhibit symptoms of decay; the plaster has repeatedly fallen from the walls, and is at present bulged and cracked to such a degree, that it must again become detached. In many of the students' rooms, the windows admit the air and wet almost as freely as the light; the doors are thin, flimsy, and badly put together; there are no window shutters, no fires, no means of drying up the damp when it enters; the moisture therefore settles on the students' beds and clothes to a grievous extent. I have seen articles of dress which were out of use only a few days, coloured with blue mould, and with a moist whitish fur. Unless something be done to staunch and dry these new buildings, there must be a fearful increase of cases of consumption, and of premature death in our community. Whilst I am writing these lines, there lies in the infirmary of the senior department of the College a student ill beyond the hope of recovery, whose malady originated in his being lodged, during the last academical year, in a damp room in the western wing of the new buildings. His case, I consider, a solemn warning that the dirge will be often heard iu our new cloister." "This change has had an important share in producing the improvement which is generally stated to have taken place in their condition, dress, and bearing. The increase of funds, also, at their private disposal, arising as well from the additional number of free places, as from the annual stipend of 20 l. 257 "In attempting, however, to estimate the results of the increased grant, two things are to be borne in mind—first, that a period scarcely exceeding the term of the college course has elapsed since the date of the grant, and that, consequently, so far as regards its effect on the Roman Catholic clergy of Ireland, and through them on the population of the country, sufficient time has not elapsed to furnish materials for a correct judgment; and, again, that Ireland has passed through a period of extreme distress since the augmentation of the grant, and that its effects should be estimated by a comparison not merely with the actual previous condition of the college, but with its probable condition if no such assistance had been given." "We should, however, be doing injustice to the college if we failed to report, as the general result of the whole evidence before us, that we see no reason to believe that there has been any disloyalty in the teaching of the college, or any disposition to impair the obligation of an unreserved allegiance to Your Majesty." "We are bound to say that we have no reason to believe, from the evidence of any party, that those studies have had, practically, an injurious effect upon the mind and character of the students." "We have heard no imputation from any quarter against the moral character of the young men, and we have no reason to believe that their general character is other than irreproachable." Regium Donum, 258 conversazioni, 259 par excellence The Times 260 Times, 261 Regium Donum
 MR. PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, he felt that his task was, indeed, an easy one, as, after the admirable speeches which had been delivered by his right hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General for Ireland, and his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Dungarvan (Mr. Maguire) he was relieved of almost all the labour and much of the anxiety of addressing the House upon a question of such great interest and such grave importance. However much he must regret the discussion in that House of matters calculated to engender sectarian and personal feelings, he yet could not altogether consider such a discussion as an unmixed evil, giving, as it did, to Irish Roman Catholic Gentlemen an opportunity of repudiating doctrines most erroneously attributed to them, and of explaining, as far as social order and general morality were concerned, their views. He was not prepared to regard this question as a controversial one, but should rather refer to the circumstances under which the grant was introduced by the late Sir Robert Peel, and apply his attention to any particular circumstances which might have since arisen to warrant the repeal of a grant long and carefully considered by the Legislature. The case now presented to the House was not to be considered as holding a similar position to that brought forward on its first inception; they were now only, in his opinion, to regard whether such a state of facts had arisen as to warrant the withdrawal of the grant; and, applying himself to this state of things, he would, in the first place, submit it to be his opinion that he was no more called upon to enter into the controversial part of the question, whether as regarded great mysteries, or other salient points of belief, than would the many individuals, composing what in courtesy is denominated the united Churches of Eng-
 266 267 268 "Above all things never force your subjects to change their religion. No human power can force the impenetrable entrenchments of the heart. Force can never persuade men—it can only make them hypocrites! When kings meddle with religion, instead of protecting it, they only reduce it to servitude. Grant civil toleration to all, not by approving of all as equally good, but by suffering with patience all that God suffers, and by endeavouring to reclaim men by sweet persuasion." 269 "Who makes the quartern loaf and Luddites rise? Who fills the butcher's cart with large blue flies? Who thought in flames St. James's Court to
pinch? Who burnt the wardrobe of poor Lady Finch?" The Morning Herald "The population of Prussia, like that of Britain, is mixed—Protestant and Catholic—in the proportion of about five Catholics to eight Protestants. There are 8,604,708 Protestants, and
 270 "In the provinces of the Rhine the people are Roman Catholics; and in manufactures, trade, capital, and industry, are very far in advance of any other portion or people of the Prussian do minions." 271 status
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he found fault with those parts of the Bill which embraced the provisions of the Lands Clauses Acts, but at the same time he would rather see the Bill withdrawn than that it should be met by a direct negative, which was the real meaning of the Amendment. If the principle contained in the compulsory clauses of the Bill were ultimately sanctioned by Parliament, it ought not to be confined only to the Church of England, but should extend to all classes of religionists. The hon. Member for South Devonshire (Mr. Palk) talked of the difficulty which was experienced in obtaining sites for churches under his denomination; but if the followers of the Established Church experienced that difficulty, what must the difficulty be that the Dissenters laboured under? He would place all upon the same footing, and if the Bill were eventually amended to that extent it should have his most cordial support.
 CAPTAIN STUART  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had forgotten to tell the House that the measure as originally passed was but an enabling Act, and that the institution of Maynooth had been altogether diverted from its original purposes. He willingly admitted the loyalty and bravery of the Irish people, but that was not the question they were called upon to consider. The endowment of Maynooth was gradually increased since it was first established in 1796. They were referred to the Report of the Commissioners in order to ascertain the real facts of the case. Now in the first place he denied that the evidence was given in a fair way, or that the witnesses were examined fairly by the Commissioners, who were too ready to receive any answer they could get, and in most cases the defendants were themselves only examined in chief, and were not subjected to the slightest cross-examination. He wished to know how it was that the College of Maynooth, which had been founded for Ireland alone, was able to send out priests elsewhere and to act as a propaganda; for it was a propaganda, and nothing less. It supplied priests to our colonies, and had sent out bishops to India, to the West Indies, and to Australia. It was said that the Pope had no influence over the College of Maynooth; but he could not credit that statement when he found that books which were prohibited in Rome were immediately prohibited at Maynooth, although allowed at other Catholic seminaries, and that the Pope's behests were faithfully carried out in that institution. He could not admit that this grant of 30,000 l. 262
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it was impossible to deny the importance of the Bill, and the value of the main provisions embodied in it. The Bill to a certain extent was founded on the Report of a Commission on the subdivision of parishes; but the complexity of its details, and the several important subjects with which it dealt raised serious doubts whether at this late period of the Session, and in so thin a House, the noble Marquess ought to ask the consent of the House to its second reading. The noble Lord had stated that he should not proceed beyond the second reading, and had instanced the Education Bills as an argument for seeking to advance the Bill a stage. There seemed, however, to be a great disinclination to read the Education Bills a second time, because it would lead to no practical result. It was said that it would not advance those Bills, but it would fetter the discretion of Parliament. The same remark was certainly applicable to the present measure. If the principle of the Bill were to give further facilities for the subdivision of parishes, he was ready to accede to it. But the principle involved a great variety of subjects, as the noble Marquess proposed, not only to abolish the Church Building Commission and transfer their duties to the Ecclesiastical Commission, giving the latter very large and increased powers, but he proposed like wise to interfere with the endowment of parishes, with the law of mortmain, with the question of patronage, and with the question of pew-rents. Now all these subjects required, as the House was well aware, very grave consideration. He therefore did not see what advantage there would be in pledging the House to the principle of the Bill, when no further progress could be made with it. Even if it were earlier in the Session, he thought it impossible the Bill could be considered in a Committee of the whole House, and that referring, as it did, to a variety of Acts of Parliament, some of which were partially kept alive, and some of which were partially repealed, while others were wholly repealed or left wholly in force, it ought necessarily to be considered first by a Select Committee. He should be sorry to oppose any obstacle to the further progress of the measure, but he would ask the noble Lord to take that course, which it was pretty clearly indicated would be taken with re-
 231
 MR. PALK  said, he would gladly see the Bill proceed to a second reading, to show that Parliament was prepared on the earliest occasion thoroughly to go into this complicated question. He knew practically that it was most difficult to build a church under any circumstances, and the expense of obtaining a private Act of Parliament was almost as much as the cost of the edifice. Although he was not prepared to go into the details of the measure, he considered a material fault was that no fund was provided for building churches, there being no great difficulty, when the edifice was reared, in obtaining proper endowment. As far as he could see, there were no means provided by the Bill by which church edifices might be erected. He knew that there existed a great objection to the appropriation of pew-rents to the building of churches, but he did not partake of that objection. Pew-rents could not he obtained except in rich parishes, and he saw no reason why the aristocracy and the country gentry should not contribute to the building of the church of which they would receive the benefit.
 MR. ROBERT PHILLIMORE  said, he did not think it desirable that the House should commit itself to the principle of the Bill without further discussion.
 235 verbatim
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, he also must protest against the Bill receiving the sanction of a second reading. There were a dozen principles enunciated in the Bill. In the first place, with regard to church-rates, the noble Lord brought forward an entirely new principle, and created a new form of church-rates under circumstances peculiarly objectionable. The clause said that church-rates should be applicable to the new district. [The Marquess of
 233
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, the advantage of laying the measure before the country had already been attained by the first reading and printing of the Bill, which was of a most important and complicated character, and one to which the House ought not hastily to give a second reading without duly understanding it. There could be no such thing as reading a Bill a second time  pro forma,
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he attached great importance to an extension of the parochial principle and the substitution of  bonâ fide 232
 MR. DEASY  said, he objected to the insertion of the words proposed by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland, which he thought would be productive of injustice to the tenant, and were not necessary for the security of the landlord. He should feel it his duty to take the sense of the Committee on the Amendment.
 MR. LLOYD DAVIS  said, he fully concurred in the views of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland, and would support the Amendment upon the simple ground of justice to all parties. He had frequently heard a desire expressed by the hon. Members from Ireland that the laws of England should be assimilated to that country. The Amendment proposed carried out that principle, for there was not a lease granted in England that did not contain a covenant by which the tenant lost the benefit of his improvements if he failed in paying his rent.
 MR. FORTESCUE  said, the Amendment was not consistent with the main principle of the Bill, viz., compensation to the tenant. Supposing a tenant fell into arrear with his rent, he was surely entitled to have credit for his improvements.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he would admit that cases of surrender were included, but cases of breach of covenant were not so. A breach of covenant in over-cropping or not duly cultivating might be most injurious to the landlord. He had heard of fourteen crops being taken out of the land, and had known of five or six crops; and the difficulties of getting out a tenant in Ireland were such, that he might be able to ruin the land before he could be got rid of.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, it was provided that in the case of any breach of covenants including non-payment of rent, the landlord was entitled to make such a demand as he might fairly ask as a set-off against the compensation required by the tenant; but when they came to deal with an eviction for breach of condition—a sublet for example—in which the landlord received no damnification, the case was materially altered. The non-payment of rent was essentially a money question, and the tenant could regain possession by paying the rent within six months. There were many breaches of conditions which would occasion no loss to the landlord. It would be hard to make them cases, and it would be extremely difficult to legislate for them. He thought that while on the one hand it would not be right to force a landlord unduly to buy the improvements that were made, so, on the other, it would be hard that, for a breach of condition without damnification to the landlord, the tenant should be forced out of his holding. He must, therefore, oppose the Amendment.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he did not see why the same consequences should not follow any breach of condition that were made to follow non-payment of rent.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he would suggest that the period within which evicted tenants might bring actions should be extended to three months.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he thought that the Amendment of his hon. Friend was a fair one, and was not inconsistent with the principle of the Bill.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, this day, after the other business.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that, unless the Amendment were adopted, a tenant would have the power of telling his landlord that he had made certain improvements, and that he called upon him there and then to give him compensation for those improvements. It might not be convenient at that moment for the landlord to comply with the request, and then, if the tenant refused to pay any more rent, the landlord would be compelled to evict the tenant for nonpayment of rent.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he proposed to insert the words, "except for non-payment of rent," after the word "otherwise" in page 8 line 43.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he could not agree to the Amendment, for which he could see no good ground, and the adoption of which might lead to other specific exemptions.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he could not agree to the insertion of these words. The Committee having discussed at considerable length, and decided the principle on which compensation was to be given, he considered it useless to be proposing exceptions of the kind proposed by the Amendment, and fighting the question over again on small points.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that, if the hon. Baronet had looked to a subsequent clause in the Bill (Clause 10), he would have seen that it rendered his own Amendment unnecessary. It was not, however, just to assume that because a tenant was in arrear of rent, he was therefore insolvent. The probability was that a great majority of solvent tenants would at the expiration of their term be more or less in arrear, though not, as the hon. Baronet had supposed, to the extent of two or three years. But even in that case the landlord had his remedy by ejectment, and the Bill provided that if the landlord was driven to evict his tenant for non-payment of rent the tenant forfeited by such eviction all right to compensation.
 MR. FRENCH  said, he should oppose the Amendment, because he did not think that, as a test of the solvency of the tenant, it was worth anything.
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, he thought if the Bill was to be brought back to its original shape in one point, by parity of reasoning it ought to be similarly remodelled in every other respect.
 MR. G. BUTT  said the Bill was not intended merely for the tenant; it dealt also with the rights and duties of the landlord. Was it not only fair then that when a tenant neglected to keep his contract he should be excluded from reaping the benefit of this measure? For his part, he thought the Amendment was founded upon equity and justice, and if it were rejected the Bill might be well denounced as a species of one-sided legislation.
 MR. G. BUTT  said, that on the contrary, he looked upon the proviso as in direct violation of the principle of the Bill.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, that as the clause now stood, an evicted tenant acquired a right of action against the landlord at any time within six years. In order to limit the time, he begged to propose as an Amendment in page 9, line 14, after the
 292
 MR. I. BUTT  said, it must be admitted by all parties that the question was attended with great difficulties. Everything he had heard said on the subject had, however, confirmed him in the opinion that he ought to vote against the proposed Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman. When discussing that question it was useless to speak of the analogy of England. If they were to act upon the anology of England they ought not to have such a Bill as that before them. The principle, however, upon which they should proceed was that of compensation for improvements, which was admitted to be its object. They should not, therefore, be endeavouring to cut down as much as possible its advantages to the tenant, but rather to extend them as far as they were consistent with the just rights of the landlord. For the one case in which the Amendment would shield the landlord from the unjust claims of a dishonest tenant, he believed there would be twenty cases in which it would inflict the most crying grievance upon the honest tenant. He recollected hearing a distinguished Judge say that Solomon was a wise man and Samson was a strong man; but neither Solomon nor Samson could pay their rent if they had not the money. Now there was much wisdom in the observation—for an honest tenant with all his wisdom and strength, by unforeseen circumstances might be unable to pay his rent. Was it just then, under the circumstances, to say to him that he should not receive any compensation for his improvements on the land, although the value of such improvements might be considerably more than the rent that he owed? Was it at all likely that a tenant who had built houses, made roads, or erected fences, would expose himself to ruin by wilfully subjecting himself to eviction for non-payment of rent?
 MR. GEORGE  said, he would beg to move the insertion after the words "except for non-payment of rent," the words, "or other breach of covenant, or on the surrender of the tenant." This Amendment was to carry out the principle already repeatedly affirmed, that the tenant was only to be entitled to compensation on eviction by the landlord or effluxion of the tenancy by time, provided he fulfilled the obligations of the tenancy. Eviction for nonpayment of rent was a penalty for breach of a condition, the tenant having forfeited his lease. There could be no difference between eviction for non-payment of rent and eviction for breach of any other covenant; for instance, a covenant to lay out
 290
 MR. GEORGE  said, if A had property worth 50 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. GEORGE  said, in the 56th clause the words he proposed were introduced.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he would agree to those suggestions. He would omit the words "as to surrender," and alter the rest of the Amendment by using the words "breach of condition."
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he wished to address a few words to the Committee on the Amendment now under consideration, although he confessed he saw but little use for the representatives of the popular constituencies in Ireland to give expression to their opinions, seeing how little was the impression those opinions made on the minds of those occupying the Ministerial benches. He was anxious, however, to ascertain what course of policy the Irish Members meant to pursue towards the Government, seeing that they really were determined to carry through this emasculated Bill, which had been rendered utterly worthless, and had better be thrown into the waste-paper basket. It was his belief that the responsibility of this ruinous Amendment rested not with the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland, who knew nothing whatever of that country, and who had been pitchforked into his present position for the mere convenience of his party, but that the whole responsibility of this ruinous exception, now insisted upon, rested on the Solicitor General and the Attorney General for Ireland. Those hon. and learned Gentlemen were bound to rise up and say whether they were satisfied with the Bill as it was proposed to be amended, and whether they
 285 "I feel it to be my solemn duty to declare in the presence of this vast and influential assembly, that I shall never be found the supporter of any Government who will not consent to make it a Cabinet question, and give the fullest Ministerial aid and influence to a measure embodying provisions for the real and tangible relief of the outraged and injured land tenantry of this country—a real and permanent relief in its fullest meaning, acceptance, and extent." l. l. 286
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he wished to explain that, although he had not divided the Committee on the provision referred to by the right hon. and learned Gentleman, he had nevertheless argued against it, and had only yielded from a desire to get a Bill passed which, though imperfect, might still be productive of benefit.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he should oppose the proviso, for he believed that there was no property in Ireland upon which there were not arrears of rent.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he thought he was bound to support the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman. The principle involved in it was not new, for it underwent considerable discussion by the Select Committee in 1853. The tenant's right to compensation should arise whenever he was unjustly dispossessed by the landlord; but, on the other hand, if the tenant did not perform his part of the contract, it would be a strong thing to say that he created a title to compensation by his own default. According to his (Mr. Napier's) conviction of what was right and proper, then, he should support the Amendment.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he held it to be right in principle that, when a tenant was dispossessed without any default on his part, he was entitled to compensation for his improvements, but that, when he was in fault, he ought not to be made a profiler by his own wrong. On this principle he should support the Amendment.
 MR. BLAND  said, he would now move to insert at the end of the clause, the words of which he had given notice.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he should support the Amendment, which he considered essential to place the Irish tenantry on as good a footing as their English brethren. An Irish tenant could now be evicted, where there was not a written contract or lease, for a single year's arrear of rent; whereas, in England a rule of law much more favourable to the tenant prevailed.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he should certainly vote against the Amendment, as being unjust and oppressive upon the tenant. In Ireland it was not an uncommon practice to allow tenants to run in arrear of rent while they were making improvements upon their farms, and when the landlord found that they had expended all their capital in that way he came down upon them for his rent, in order to reap the advantage of the improvements without paying anything for them.
 MR. SERJEANT O'BRIEN  said, that a distinction ought to be drawn between the tenant who wilfully and designedly neglected to pay his rent and the tenant who was prevented from doing so from some unavoidable cause, over which he had no control whatever. Now, the Amendment recognised no such distinction, while as for the evil which it proposed to re-
 282
 MR. PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, these Amendments would render the measure totally unworthy the attention of Irish Members, because they would have the effect rather of advancing the landlords' interest than giving the tenant some prospect that he would obtain compensation for his improvements.
 MR. SERJEANT O'BRIEN  said, he would now move to insert in the same clause, after the words "non-payment of rent," the words "reserved by any subsisting lease."
 MR. MALINS  said, the Government ought to be consistent. They had conceded that if the tenant were evicted for a pecuniary demand, he should not have compensation; and the principle of the Amendment was, that a breach of covenant might be a pecuniary demand, as by way of penalty or increased rent for wrongful cultivation.
 MR. MALINS  said, he had only intended breaches of covenants, or where there was a condition for re-entry.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he rose to ask the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary as to the amount of remuneration for Roman Catholic clergymen for attendance at gaols?
 MR. T. KENNEDY  said, he would ask hon. Members the following question, if A owed B 5 l. l. l. l. 284
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he should support the Amendment, which would prevent the eviction of tenants by their landlords without compensation.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he would beg to insert after the same words the following, "where the tenant has a power of alienation."
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he did not think there would be so much hardship in the proposition of the hon. Baronet as there would be in that of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland.
 MR. COGAN  said, he should oppose the Amendment on the ground that if it were adopted it would make the Bill illusory, and of little practical effect. He hoped, therefore, the Government would reconsider the matter.
 MR. KEOGH  said, he did not see the necessity for the Amendment. There was a distinction between eviction for non-payment of rent and for any other cause. Upon a mere breach of covenant a landlord might take advantage of it to repossess himself of the land, and the act might be strict and technical.
 MR. KEOGH  said, he was not disposed to shrink from any responsibility that might attach to him in reference to the Amendment now under the consideration of the Committee. The proposition of his right hon. Friend was to restore the Bill to the position in which it was when on a former occasion it left that House and went up to the other House of Parliament. In its then shape the exception was not confined to evictions for non-payment of rent, but went further, and said except for nonpayment of rent or breach of the conditions of covenant. Now those words were much more extensive than the proposition of his right hon. Friend, and infinitely more prejudicial to the tenant. But did the hon. Gentleman or any other Gentleman divide the House or strike out these words. [An hon. MEMBER: They did.] Certainly not. It was quite true that the hon. Member for Longford proposed that the word "wilful" should be inserted, not before the words "non-payment of rent," but before the word "default." The other Bill was rejected by the other House of Parliament, and did any man believe that the other House of Parliament would agree to leave out all exception whatever when they had already rejected a Bill with a more extended exception? He thought the Government were justified in seeking as they did loyally to carry the Bill this Session through the other House of Parliament, by proposing an exception not going so far as that which was contained in the former Bill, but going sufficiently far to justify a sincere hope on their part that the measure would pass the Legislature.
 MR. KEOGH  said, he did not see how the Committee could accept the Amendment of the hon. and learned Gentleman after the decision at which it had arrived. It would be rather detrimental to the tenant than otherwise, and might lead to further reservations.
 MR. KEOGH  said, the clause only applied to cases of eviction.
 MR. MAGAN  said, he would beg to inform the Government that he was getting very unpopular in Ireland for being so enthusiastic a supporter of the noble Lord (Lord Palmerston). He warned them, however, that if this Amendment were persisted in, he should withdraw his countenance from the Bill altogether. The Amendment went to deprive tenants in arrear with their rent of all compensation for improvements. Now the very class of all others that required compensation were the class of tenants in arrears, for that very fact showed they were in needy circumstances.
 MR. MAGAN  said he did not think the fact of a tenant owing an arrear of rent, should preclude him from compensation for improvements.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he thought the Amendment would press very hard upon farming classes in Ireland, should any unforeseen circumstances bring about a fall in the value of agricultural produce.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, he was of opinion that the right hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland had made a slight mistake in his statement of what had occurred on a former occasion. When the Bill came before them on a former occasion, it contained the words "without
 287 l. 288
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, the clause, as it now stood, declared the tenant entitled to compensation for his improvements if evicted, unless the eviction was for nonpayment of rent. He would therefore now move an Amendment to insert, after "nonpayment of rent," the words "being not less than two years' rent of such holding." His object was to prevent the tenant from losing his compensation for a default of rent of merely a year or a year and a half.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he thought this a decisive answer to the observations of the Attorney General for Ireland. The tenant who surrendered his tenancy surely ought not to have compensation.
 MR. GROGAN  asked, when the consideration of the Bill would be resumed?
 MR. BOWYER  said, that the 13th clause of the Bill appeared to him to be an answer to the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland, for it provided that a landlord would be entitled to set off the arrears of rent against any claim of the tenant for compensation. The facts of Ireland were altogether different from those of England. Although an Irish representative he was an English landlord, and as such he could have no objection to the extension of the principle of the Bill to England, for it would, he believed, be practically inoperative in that country; because, as he said before, the facts were totally different in England and Ireland. He had had occasion two years ago to evict a tenant, but as it was proved to him that that tenant's father had erected certain buildings upon the land, he felt himself bound, as an honest man, to pay the tenant 300 l.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that with respect to Brixton and Pentonville, and other prisons in the metropolis, he had already stated that the Roman Catholic clergy who attended received no remuneration; and he now found that there were no Government prisons in England in which they received remuneration. Previous to the Vote of last year there was a payment made to the priests who attended persons at Dartmoor and Portland, to cover their travelling expenses, as they had to go a considerable distance for the purpose of attendance. But since that Vote, his noble Friend at the head of the Government had directed that these payments should be discontinued, and they had been discontinued accordingly; so that now, not only was there no remuneration to Roman Catholic clergy for attending gaols, but they had to attend at their own expense.
 MR. CAIRNS  said, his hon. and learned Friend forgot the distinction, that a tenant could not be evicted for mere breach of covenant without special stipulation to that effect. And this clause only applied to cases of eviction. It would have been better to have retained the words of the original Bill—"breaches of condition." The question of mere breach of covenant was quite different. And as to surrender, it could not be at the option of the tenant, but must be accepted by the landlord.
 MR. CAIRNS  said, he should then vote for the Amendment.
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, he would now beg to move the Amendment of which he had given notice. The principle of the right to compensation, in his opinion, ought to be that the tenant should place himself  in curiâ recti, 279
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, he thought his proviso would be an excellent substitute for that of the right hon. Gentleman
 280
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he was of opinion that the proviso was in perfect accordance, not only with the principle of the Bill, but with principles of justice. When a tenant was evicted for non-payment of rent, he did think the tenant was entitled to set off the compensation due to him against the rent, just as in the other case, the landlord was entitled to set off the arrears of rent against the compensation.
 LORD PALMERSTON  said, it would not be taken after half-past ten o'clock.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, this was certainly a matter deserving of the most serious consideration, but it was not the intention of the Government to legislate immediately upon it, for a reason that he would state. The point to which his hon. and learned Friend's inquiry had reference arose out of proceedings which had lately occupied a considerable share of public attention, and a very important and serious question might arise as to the effect of that Statute with reference to the facts which had been disclosed in the course of those proceedings. He thought it would be premature to offer any opinion upon that question, but it might turn out that the impression upon the public mind with respect to it was erroneous. Until the case to which he had alluded was decided, no legislation therefore would take place upon the subject.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, as soon as the Commissioners were appointed under the Order in Council, they sent circular letters to all the departments requesting that the particulars of
 309
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that the Order in Council made no mention of examinations conducted by the heads of departments before the appointment of the Commission. The functions of the Commissioners commenced from the date of the Order in Council, and it was their duty to act upon their instructions, and to examine all persons
 310
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that he was strongly opposed to the irresponsible manner in which provision was made for the erection of lunatic asylums in Ireland, no estimate for the construction of those establishments being furnished in many instances, previous to their erection by any responsible authority. He thought also that the Government ought to appoint a Committee to inquire into that subject; and as he understood that they were not prepared to accede to such a proposal, he should move that the House should resolve itself into a Committee on the Bill on that day three months.
 MR. FAGAN  said, he thought the Irish Members had been unfairly treated with respect to the Bill now under discussion, and that a breach of faith had been committed by the Government. It was not understood that the Committee were merely to inquire into a question of technical legality, but that any illegal and useless expenditure should be taken into consideration by the Committee, and afterwards by the Government. He put it to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether the Bill ought to be pressed, and whether a Committee of Inquiry ought not to be appointed?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the question involved in the Bill was a simple and narrow one. Certain loans were advanced from the public Exchequer to Irish counties under the provisions of the Lunatic Asylums Act, and the question was, whether those loans should or should not be repaid? Some additional grants, beyond those contemplated in the original Act, were made, and they required the publication of Orders in Council by the Irish Government. Those Orders in Council were not issued, and hence a technical irregularity which the Bill now before them proposed to remedy. The matter was referred to a Select Committee, fairly constituted, who examined evidence and made their Report, and the present was the Bill which had received the sanction of the Committee. The offer of a Commission was rejected and the alternative of a Committee was accepted. It was impossible now to suspend the passage of the Bill, and he must therefore decline to acceed to the issuing a Commission.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he must deny the imputation sought, to be placed upon the Irish Members by the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that they wished to avoid the repayment of the loans which had been advanced for the purpose of lunatic asylums. He thought, however, that the present opportunity should be made available for compelling the Government to inquire into the gross mismanagement and irregularities which had taken place by the Government in connection with the advance of these loans.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he must beg to remind the House that the assurance given to the Irish Members had been not that the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee, but that the whole question should be referred to a Select Committee. He would appeal to hon. Members opposite, English as well as Irish, whether that was not the understanding. Well, that being so, what had the Government done? They contented themselves with referring merely their Bill to a Committee, and although they acknowledged the question at issue was an architectural and a legal one, they satisfied themselves with calling as a witness, not an architect, not a lawyer, but an inspector of lunatic asylums, Dr. John Nugent—an officer appointed by themselves. He would, therefore, maintain that the Irish Members were justified in opposing the further progress of the Bill, on account of the breach of faith on the part of the Government.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, that as Chairman of the Committee, he would observe that the Committee, in conducting their inquiry, had only been actuated by a desire to do impartial justice to the people of Ireland, and they were totally unbiassed by anything that had previously taken place between the Government and the Irish Members. It was now to be regretted that the inquiry was not more extensive, but it could not have been carried further than the terms of the reference admitted. Certainly, a Committee of that House was not a proper tribunal for deciding architectural questions; and the case of the building in which they were now sitting, the original estimate of the cost of which had already been trippled, was a sufficient illustration of that fact. There was, however, no reason why the Irish Members should not be allowed to transact their own affairs, subject to the same responsibility as that which rested upon the representatives of other parts of the kingdom; and in the particular case; before them the same principle should be adopted which had been acted upon when complaints having been made in regard to the advances for drainage works in Ireland, a remission was made on account of the mistakes that had been committed by the Government officers.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he felt bound to justify the conduct of Irish Members with respect to the measure, and at the same time he must contend that there had been
 361
 MR. GRANVILLE VERNON  said, that his recollection of what occurred on the occasion when the question respecting the application of the money was under discussion was that the whole subject should be referred to a Select Committee; not to inquire as to the legality of the expenditure, because, on that point no doubt seemed to be entertained that an illegality had been committed, but as to whether the money had or had not been profitably, though illegally applied. He should have thought that the best tribunal for trying that question would have been a Commission, but upon the whole it was considered better to refer it to a Select Committee.
 MR. CORRY  said, that he had had several communications with the Government on this subject, and it was a distinct understanding, to which the Government were parties, that the question to be inquired into, whether it was referred to a Committee or to a Commission, was to be whether the money had been properly spent or not; and it was his opinion that the Government had not acted fairly towards the Irish Members in the matter.
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, he regretted very much the course which the Government had taken on the occasion. Testimony had been given from all parties that the understanding come to was that the whole subject should be made matter of inquiry, and he thought it hardly fair to insist upon the further progress of the Bill founded upon an inquiry so limited as that which had taken place before the Committee.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that his recollection of what had passed at the interview between himself and the deputation of Irish Members on the subject was very distinct. On that occasion he had offered the deputation the alternative of a Commission or a Committee. He remembered impressing upon them that a Committee would not answer the purpose which they had in view, inasmuch as it would be impossible for a Committee to inquire into the architectural question. The Commission, however, was refused, and a Committee was moved for in the House. That Motion was carried without any remark being made [  Cries of 362
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, he thought the best course for the Government to adopt would be to grant a Commission to inquire into the whole subject.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he also concurred in recommending that a Commission should be appointed.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he could confirm the statement of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer as to what had passed at the interview with the Irish Members. As to the proceedings of the Committee, the reason why the general question had not been gone into was, that the Committee itself had decided that the order of reference did not justify so extended an inquiry.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he would appeal to the hon. Member (Mr. Mackinnon) to withdraw his Amendment and allow some decision to be arrived at.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, if the House would consent to the adjournment of the debate he would take into consideration the propriety of renewing the offer he had formerly made for the issue of a Commission. [ A cry of
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he could not under stand the proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. If the right hon. Gentleman was prepared to say he would grant a Commission, then it would be satisfactory; but when he only said he would consider the matter, it was not sufficiently definite,
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would be prepared to accede to the issue of a Commission in some form or other before that day week, but he was unable at that moment to state the precise manner in which the Commission should be issued.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he would suggest that at that late period of the Session it was hopeless to expect any Report from a Commission which could be reduced to practical legislation during the present year, and, therefore, he thought it would be better to withdraw the Bill.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he thought hon. Members would do well to accept the proposition of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer
 363
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he would recommend the Irish Members to accede to the proposal of the Government.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he did not wish to triumph over the Government by an adverse vote, and would therefore advise his friends to accept the proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 MR. MOFFATT  said, he must deny that the system of limited liability led to deception in America, and his conviction was, that the operation of such a measure as that now proposed would be extremely beneficial to the commerce of this country.
 MR. MILES  said, he had come down to the House determined to oppose the Limited Liability Bill, but was reconciled to it by the excellent speech of the right hon. Member for Oxford (Mr. Cardwell), and by the announcement of the Amendments he proposed to introduce. He therefore trusted that full time would be given to the commercial community to consider the Amendments before the Bill should be discussed in Committee.
 Mr. BOUVERIE  said, that he only intended to commit the Bill on Monday  pro formâ,
 MR. BOUVERIE , in rising to move the second reading of the Bill, said that, whatever might be the opinion entertained upon the question—whether hon. Members anticipated that the measures he was about to submit to the House would be productive of evil or of the good which he believed would follow from their adoption—no one would deny the importance of those measures as respected the commercial interests of the country. He regretted that he had not had the opportunity, when the Bill was introduced, of stating the reasons which had induced Her Majesty's Government to bring the question before the House. He now proposed to consider the two Bills—the Partnership Amendment and the Limited Liability Bills—together, because, though they related to different branches of the subject, yet those branches were so intimately connected that it was almost impossible to discuss the one without discussing the other in conjunction with it. He proposed to state to the House, with reference to these two measures, what was the present law relating to the subject, what were the objections entertained to it, and what were the remedies which those Bills professed to apply, and the alterations they would introduce. The two Bills were divided, one having regard to private partnership, and the other to Joint-stock Companies, Strictly speaking, a Joint-stock Company was but a partnership; but still there was a substantial distinction between the two. At any rate, the Legislature had treated them as distinct, because private partnerships still rested entirely at Common Law while Joint-stock Companies had been the subject of regulations by Statute. First, with respect to private partnership—lawyers, he believed, defined partnership to exist wherever two or more persons contributed their capital and their labour, or either of them, to a common undertaking, and shared in the profit. The test of a man's being a partner was his sharing in the profits. A man might be entirely unknown to the public, and his name might never have appeared in connection with a certain undertaking, but yet, if he had the remotest share in the profits, the law held him to be a partner, and made him liable as such. There was another rule of law with respect to this question of
 311 "That the law of partnership which renders every person who, though not an ostensible partner, shares the profits of a trading concern liable to the whole of its debts, is unsatisfactory, and should be so far modified as to permit persons to contribute to the capital of such concerns on terms of sharing their profits, without incurring liability beyond a limited amount; and such modification is especially necessary in Ireland, regard being had to the peculiar social and industrial condition of that part of the United Kingdom." 312 313 314 "It must not be supposed that these are merely imaginary cases. There is little doubt that any solicitor engaged for mercantile clients could readily call to mind many instances in which valuable businesses have been closed and lost upon the grounds stated. At all events, numerous cases of this nature are fresh in my memory, and so apparent has been the evil that in several instances within my own experience it has been determined to disregard the prudent directions of the testator, and to run the hazards of continuing rather than closing a business calculated to produce present income to the widow and young family, and future provision for the latter upon their attaining a competent age." 315 "It is difficult to understand why the jurisprudence and manners of the English do not allow of  commandite en commandite, commandite commandite. Code de Commerce "Partnership in  commandite commanditaires, commandite "The  commanditaire commandite, 316 commandite "I have myself been a traveller twelve years for one of the first houses in Basle, in Switzerland; we had a sugar refinery on Swiss ground, and, being on the frontier of France, we found it advantageous, under Napoleon, to establish one also on French ground, about twenty miles from our city; our house did not like to run the sole risk, therefore a  commandite Gazette gerants commandites; Commentaris 317 commandite, 318 319 320 Vict. 321 "Total number completely registered to March 31, 1855 (still in existence, 723), 914; of which are—Assurance Companies, 198; Railway Companies, eighteen; Gas Companies, 234; Companies for all other public works, forty; Mining Companies (including gold, copper, lead, and coal mining, and stone and slate quarrying and smelting companies), ninety-nine; Companies for conducting manufactures, working patent inventions, &c., seventy-four; Shipping and Steam Navigation Companies, forty-three; Trading Companies, fourteen; Companies for the use and occupation of land, building, loan and investment, aiding emigration, and for improving the dwellings of the poorer classes, fifty-eight; Companies for establishing buildings of a public character, seventy-eight; Conveyance Company, other than railway, seven; and miscellaneous Companies, not reducible under any of the foregoing heads, fifty-one." 322 "I have seen so many instances where the inability to constitute a partnership with limited liability has prevented the carrying out of really  bonâ fide 323 "So great is the demand for limited liability that Companies are frequently constituted in Paris and the United States in order that they may obtain the security which in this respect the laws of those countries afford. When these Companies are formed in Paris, they pay a heavy duty to the French Government. The duty assessed upon one Company of which my firm were the solicitors amounted to 750  l. en commandite, sine quâ non. acte sociale gerant l. l. l. 324 Will. Vict., 325 l. 326 327 l. l., l. 328 "Further, it appears to your Majesty's Commissioners that the benefit to be acquired by the managing or limited partners will be at the expense of a more than countervailing amount of injury to traders bearing the burden of unlimited liability, who will have to enter into competition with those who enjoy the protection to be given by the proposed law." "Without a monopoly, however, a Joint-stock Company, it would appear from experience, cannot long carry on any branch of foreign trade. To buy in one market, in order to sell with profit in another when there are many competitors in both, to watch over, not only the occasional variations in the demand, but the much greater and more frequent variations in the competition or in the supply which that demand is likely to get from other people, and to suit with dexterity and judgment both the quantity and quality of each assortment of goods to all these circumstances, is a species of warfare of which the operations are continually changing, and which can scarce ever be conducted successfully without such an unremitting exertion of vigilance and attention as cannot long be expected from the directors of a Joint-stock Company. The only trades which it seems possible for a Joint-stock Company to carry on successfully, without an exclusive privilege, are those of which all the operations are capable
 329
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he proposed to make a change in that respect—that defective registration should not expose the party to unlimited liability.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I can only say, Sir, that I have read the circular of Count Buol, or the statement of it which is in the newspapers; and it seems to me that all the statements in that circular, so far as I have any knowledge, are perfectly accurate and correct.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR : I wish, Sir, to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government with respect to a statement in the papers of today, which has been seen with great pain by everybody, to the effect that the Commander in Chief of the Forces in the Crimea is so unwell that he has requested to
 299
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  said, he would take that opportunity of asking the First Lord of the Treasury whether Government had any reason to suppose that Austria had diminished, or intended to diminish, her army by 140,000 men, and, if so, whether Government intended to take any additional measures for filling the ranks of the army and the militia up to the numbers originally voted by Parliament? The part of the question which related to the army had been answered in another place, but no statement had been made with regard to the militia.
 MR. ARCHIBALD HASTIE  said, that instead of regarding the proposed measure as a march in advance, as the noble Lord seemed to think it, he looked upon it as a march of retrogression. No country had ever risen to the commercial eminence which that country had acquired, and that was not the result of limited liability, but quite the reverse. France had been referred to by the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Board of Trade; but he told them that the Returns of 1852 showed that there were 2,000 partnerships registered in France which had not limited liability, and that there were only 400 with limited liability. That, he thought, showed that the system of limited liability created discredit in France. To justify his measure, the right hon. Gentleman should have shown that there was a deficiency of capital to carry on the commercial interests of the country; but he could not show that, the fact being quite the reverse. Those nations that had limited liability were forced to come to this country for credit when they wished to buy the goods and produce of foreign nations; and he maintained that to introduce the system into the United Kingdom, would go far to destroy that credit which it had uniformly sustained. Indeed, to set up limited liability
 358
 MR. SPEAKER  having put the question, that the House at its rising do adjourn to Monday,
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the Government had received information that forty-six explosive machines had been taken up in the Baltic, and that by some accident—how it occurred was not stated—Admiral Seymour and other persons were hurt, though not seriously, but that no injury whatever had been done in any other way. The Government were not prepared to carry into execution the scheme proposed by Lord Dundonald.
 MR. E. BALL  said, he considered that there was a broad distinction between the question of limited liability and that of amending the law of partnership. With regard to the question of limited liability, he would very briefly state his opinion to the House. If a project were formed to carry out what would require 100,000 l. l
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he thought it was rather late in the day to be arguing at any great length the principle upon which the important Bills now under consideration were founded. If the principle
 341 342 343 344 quantum Gazette 345 346 Gazette quantum l l l l l l l l 347 l bonâ fide 348 commandite, 349
 MR. CAYLEY  said, I wish now, Sir, that I can do so without infringing the rules of the House, to put another question to the noble Lord. It is the law, no doubt, for the Court of Directors of the East India Company to nominate to this high appointment, the approval of the Crown being subsequently required; but everybody knows that, practically, the approval is given first—that it is the Government who suggest to the Court of Directors, and that it is the Court of Directors who acquiesce in or dissent from the recommendation. The noble Lord said—and I am glad the hon. Member for Inverness-shire (Mr. H. Baillie) asked the question which he did—the noble Lord said, the suggestion that Lord Canning should be appointed came from the Court of Directors. No doubt that may formally be the case; but does the noble Lord mean to say the Court of Directors, without any suggestion, passed a Resolution to nominate an individual whom, until his nomination, no one ever dreamt of or thought of for the office? Does the noble Lord mean to say that Lord Canning, from his antecedents, fulfils the conditions of the Resolution of the hon. Baronet the Member for Hertfordshire? Does the noble Lord mean to say that no communications or suggestions were made from the Government to any Member of the Court of Directors on this subject? I should very much like to know whether the initiative with respect to Lord Canning's nomination did not begin with the Government, and not with the Court of Directors? No doubt Lord Canning is at the best possible age for taking public employment. Those who have long known him entertain a very high opinion of his ability. His collegiate career gave indications of much future promise, and everybody believes he has been a very able administrator in those departments which he has filled. He has filled the office of Chief Commissioner of Woods and Forests, and is now Postmaster General. He may be, for anything I know to the contrary, a Heaven-born administrator for India, but this is not the way we can afford to trifle with the interests of that great
 303 304
 MR. CAYLEY : I rise, Sir, to put a question relative to the appointments to the office of Governor General of India which it was my wish to put yesterday, but, in deference to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and out of courtesy to him, as I had not given notice of my question, I waived my privilege in accordance with the public convenience. Before I ask the question, may I ask that the Resolution unanimously come to by this House upon the Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Hertfordshire (Sir E. B. Lytton) be read by the Clerk at the table? "That this House recommends to the earliest attention of Her Majesty's Ministers the necessity of a careful revision of our various official establishments, with a view to simplify and facilitate the transaction of public business, and, by instituting judicious tests of merit, as well as by removing obstructions to its fair promotion and legitimate rewards, to secure the service of the State the largest available proportion of the energy and intelligence for which the people of this country are distinguished." 301
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he had, upon the part of his constituents, been for some
 306
 MR. FRENCH  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty if the report were true that the second in command of the Baltic fleet—Admiral Seymour—with several of the men, had been wounded by the explosion of the machines sunk by the enemy? And he would take that opportunity of calling the attention of the Government to the letter recently published by Lord Dundonald, in which he offered to strike a blow at the military power of Russia more fatal than the capture of Sebastopol. He begged to ask if the Government were prepared to afford Lord Dundonald any practical means of testing that discovery?
 MR. GLYN  said, he would beg to call attention to the measures that had been adopted from time to time with reference to the subject now under discussion, up to the Report of the Committee appointed in
 334 335
 MR. H. BAILLIE : I wish to know, Sir, whether I have understood the noble Lord to say that the Chairman of the Court of Directors have submitted the name of Lord Canning to the Government. [Lord PALMERSTON: He has given us notice.] Was the noble Lord aware whether this had been done without communication with the directors?
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he begged to ask the First Lord of the Treasury whether any Report had been received by the Government from Mr. Doria relative to the conduct of the Austrian troops in Moldavia and Wallachia, and whether he had any objection to lay the Report upon the table of the House?
 MR. MACKIE  said, he could cite instances which had come within his own knowledge of the hardship and inconvenience to which many families in the towns of Scotland were put, by billeting soldiers upon them, in cases where they had no kind of accommodation for them.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, though thinking that the measures were not founded on a sufficiently wide basis, and did not fully carry out their principle, yet he rejoiced that a step had been made in the advancing of a great people, and was willing to accept them as an earnest of what might follow. The principle of the Bill might be traced to the Roman law.
 MR. J. C. EWART  said, there was a very strong feeling in Liverpool in favour of limited liability, and he hoped that the measure would be carried through both Houses of Parliament during the present Session.
 MR. MALINS  said, he would beg to express his thanks to the Government for introducing the measures now under the consideration of the House, for he could not but think that, after the subject had been undergoing examination before Committees and Commissions for the last twenty-one years, it was at length fully ripe for legislation. The law of partnership which prevailed in the United Kingdom was a disgrace to any civilised community. They were not now about to deal with partnerships in which A and B carried on business in their joint names, and were, of course, both liable for the debts of the concern to the fullest extent; but with partnerships in which A conducted the business in his own name, and had B for a dormant partner. The principle of the law, that every man who had a share of the profits should also bear a share of the losses, had been pushed to an unreasonable extent, and made the dormant partner, who might have joined A only the day before his failure and taken but 20 l. "I take the case of a dormant partner as an example:—A has entered into partnership with B; he has bargained that B shall not pledge his credit; he has agreed to find certain capital; he has performed his engagement faithfully. C has sold goods to B; B's fraud, folly, or misfortune makes him insolvent. The existence of the partnership is discovered, and A is called on by C, who had never heard of him and never trusted him, to pay. This claim is, in my judgment, inconsistent with common sense and common honesty." 337 338 mesne process mesne process 339 "If you employed an agent and agreed to pay him a certain proportion of the profits of your business, that constituted a partnership; but if you agreed to pay a clerk a sum equal to a certain proportion—say one-fourth of the profits—that did not constitute a partnership." l. 340
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he wished to put a question, of which he had given notice, namely, what arrangements had been made for the examination of clerks in the civil service by the Commission appointed for that purpose; what notice of such examination was given to each candidate; and what remuneration was proposed to be given for the probationary work performed by the candidates before they were permanently appointed? The House would recollect, that some time ago he had moved for a statement of the various examinations in the different public offices. That paper was laid upon the table of the House, and he shortly afterwards gave a notice of a Motion founded upon it, but was anticipated by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, who appointed a Commission upon that subject. He (Mr. Milnes) had nothing to say against the Commissioners, and congratulated them upon the possession of a secretary who was not only a polished scholar, but also a man of great political wisdom. He, however, felt bound to complain when he found the Commission, without giving any public notice, had proceeded to act in a manner calculated to alarm the functionaries in all Public offices, and not at all calculated to lay a good foundation for the important work they had to perform. He had been informed that clerks who had already passed
 308
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he wished to know whether he was to understand that persons appointed to office since the moment when the Order of Council happened to issue were called upon to undergo a second, or it might be a third, examination at the hands of the Commissioners, although they had undergone an examination which was considered satisfactory in the special departments to which they had been appointed.
 MR. COLLIER  said, he was glad to hear that his right hon. Friend proposed to make that alteration. He would wish, further, to point out that there was this difference between partnerships contemplated by the Bill and the  sociétés en commandite. "To deliberate whether they have not so fettered the system as to render it practically dangerous to embark therein? Why so much rigour against special partners here? Or, rather, why so very much more than in France? To the eye of the author of this work every statute of limited partnership in this country is framed as if capitalists were exceptions from the mass of citizens, and were viewed as a band of rogues who would lose no opportunity to take advantage of the community, or to defraud the law. According to the scale of penal sanctions that is meted out to special partners, dormant partners at common law ought to be viewed in theory as pickpockets, and, when discovered (from the mere rarity and difficulty of discovery), be prosecuted as such, and their gains snatched from them as unholy. If there were any warrant for this severity against special partners in the experience of countries which have tested the system for centuries, the plea would be different, but the reverse is the case." 333 pari passu Code de Commerce
 MR. COLLIER  said, the House and the country would be much obliged to his right hon. Friend for having introduced the Bill now under discussion, which, although by no means perfect, was an important recognition of the principle of freedom of contract, which he regarded as a corollary to freedom of trade and freedom of navigation. He should address his observations, in the first instance, to the Limited Liability Bill, which he regarded as far more important, and likely to have a far more extensive operation than the Partnership Bill. The first observation which it occurred to him to make was, that he could have wished it had included a wider range of Companies. His right hon. Friend had said that two classes of Companies, namely, the Banking and Insurance, were exempted from the operation of the Bill, but it would be found that a much larger number of Companies were exempted. The Companies exempted were those to which the Joint-stock Companies
 330 l., l. l. l. 331 société en commandite, valeurs "The reason of this provision is very simple. Special partners are not indefinitely responsible. They risk nothing but a certain amount of capital, and are not liable beyond it. It thence becomes useless to present their names to the gaze of third persons; frequently, indeed, such needless exposure would have kept capital out of limited partnerships, for many fathers of families, magistrates, functionaries, freeholders, and professional men only go into thorn on the faith of this condition—not to be published. Further, the extract need not designate the capital introduced by the general partners. Their property, if they possess any, adds nothing to the material strength ( forces Code of Commerce
 MR. HILDYARD  said, he begged to ask the hon. and learned Attorney General whether it was the intention of the Government to bring in immediately an Act to repeal or amend so much of the Act 7 and 8  Geo. "That no banker, merchant, broker, factor, attorney, or other agent as aforesaid shall be liable to be convicted by any evidence whatever as an offender against this Act in respect of any act done by him if he shall at any time previously to his being indicted for such offence have disclosed such act on oath in consequence of any compulsory process of any court of law or equity, in any action, suit, or proceeding which shall have been  bonâ fide
 MR. LOWE  said, that, although the question had reached its twenty-first year, he saw many symptoms which showed that it was still only in its infancy, and the proof of that was that no hon. Gentleman who had yet addressed the House had ventured to follow out his own principles to their logical conclusion. That, however, was a symptom with which we were familiar in all cases. People took a principle, the abstract truth of which they adopted, but shrank from the application of that principle, introduced all manner of exceptions, and cut it down until you could not tell whether they most trusted or distrusted it. As an instance of what he had stated he might refer to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cardwell), which, in the beginning, was very strong in favour of limited liability, but, at the conclusion, was equally strong against it, so that you could hardly tell on which side the right hon. Gentleman argued with greater cogency. Now, ho (Mr. Lowe) differed in opinion from every Gentleman who had addressed the House, but, though he thus differed from them, he should not have to seek for a single new argument in support of his views. He could cull them all from the speeches of those who had preceded him. First, as to the Partnership Bill of his right hon. Friend. It appeared to him I that that was a very simple matter. The question as to whether a man was to be allowed to lend money on the terms of receiving profits instead of interest was just a simple variety of the question the House settled last year when it repealed the Usury Laws. The House had found out that they must leave people to settle for themselves what rate of interest should be paid, and last year they consequently agreed to repeal those laws. But they
 351 pari passu 352
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he was one of those who had taken exception to the abstract Resolution adopted by the House on
 355
 MR. W. BROWN  said, the discussion had shown that the House was not in a position to legislate upon the subject without a great deal of care and inquiry. He hoped this country would never lose the vantage which it possessed arising from the high character of its merchants, which they had earned by their honourable dealings, and by their never having sought for a limitation of liability which should enable them to make large fortunes at the expense of other persons. It had been stated that some of the American jurists were in favour of the principle of limited liability, but he could cite the names of others who were opposed to it. He hoped that if the Bills were referred to a Committee upstairs, Amendments would be introduced which would render them less objectionable than he now considered them to be.
 MR. W. EWART  said, he wished to inquire of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for War, what measures were being adopted to remove the complaints made of the oppressive practice of billeting the militia in Scotland?
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, it might be inferred, from the many communications which had been made to himself on the subject, that the present was not the first time he had heard complaints from Scotland arising out of the inconvenience which the inhabitants of those towns which had been selected as head quarters experienced in consequence of having the militia billeted upon them. But they all knew that, whatever the grievance might be, it was one of those inconveniences which a state of war rendered necessary to be borne, and it was no more in the power of the Government to remove a grievance of that sort than it was for them to obviate any other grievance incident to a war so long as that war continued. No doubt, the matter complained of by the people of those towns in Scotland which had been referred to was a hardship, but he must deny that it was one for which the Government was responsible. The Bill regulating the billeting of the militia in Scotland was only passed last Session. It was by that Bill enacted that the militia should be billeted in Scotland in the same way as were Her Majesty's forces, and that way was according to the custom which prevailed in that country at the time of the Union. All that the Government could do was to apportion the burden as equitably as possible, and to reduce it as far as was practicable, which they had done. The evil was only one-half of what it might be, for the quota of Scotland for the militia was 10,000 men, while the whole number under arms did not exceed 5,000. A considerable number had been placed in barracks, and it was desirable to do the same with regard to all; but the fact was, the barrack accommodation in Scotland was very limited in extent; and, moreover, several of the barracks were
 307
 MR. CAIRNS  said, if the hon. Member (Mr. Lowe) were let alone, as he said he wished to be, he could not practically carry out limited liability. When Parliament was asked to confer a benefit, it had a right to impose such terms as it thought to be demanded by a regard to the public interest. On that ground alone could the provisions as to registration, capital, and persons contained in the proposed Bills be justified. The object of the Bills now before the House was to give to the mercantile community a legislative declaration that a particular process should act as a notice with regard to all partnership contracts that might be entered into. If the interference of the Legislature was not required, all the discussion that had taken place upon the subject would be useless; but if the interference of the Legislature was required, then it was perfectly fair for Parliament to impose upon, as the condition upon which they would grant the benefit asked for, such terms as might be thought best calculated to promote the public interests. He believed that the House were almost unanimously agreed as to the propriety of reading the Bill a second time, but he trusted that, after they had been read a second time, the Government would proceed with them as speedily as possible, in order that the larger and more important Bill at least might pass into law that Session. He knew of no social question so important to settle as that which was now brought before the House. A stop had virtually been put to the granting of charters by the Crown on the advice of the Board of Trade, because it had been justly considered that the shades of difference between the cases in which a charter ought to be granted and the cases in which it ought not to be granted were so small, that the responsibility of deciding between the two cases was one that ought not to rest upon the Board of Trade. A return was made last Session of the applications which had been made for a charter, and the instances in which they had been granted, from which it would easily be seen that the Board of Trade had got into great confusion upon the subject. In some cases in which a charter was granted there was no evidence that it was granted to promote objects of public utility, and the capital in several instances was of the most insignificant and miserable description. But a stop having been put to the granting of a charter, the public required some measure which migt be substituted in its place, and,
 354
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Colonies a question which stood upon the notice paper. He did this in consequence of a statement which had appeared in the circular of Count Buol, who said that he submitted an  ultimatum ultimatum, casus belli.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that Mr. Doria, who was attached to the Embassy at Constantinople, had been sent upon a temporary employment to Bucharest
 298
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, my hon. Friend and the House are aware that the selection of a person to fill the important office of Governor General of India is by law vested in the Court of Directors, subject to the approbation of the Crown. The Chairman of the Court of Directors, in accordance with the usual custom, gave me notice on Wednesday of his intention to propose on Wednesday next the name of Lord Canning as successor to Lord Dalhousie upon his retirement from the office of Governor General of India. That selection has received the ready approval and sanction of the Crown, and I am convinced that the choice so made by the Court of Directors, in harmony with Her Majesty's Government, will fulfil the Resolution of the House of Commons, by placing at the head of the Government of India a person fully qualified by his energy and intelligence for the discharge of the important duties confided to him. If I required any additional sanction beyond the opinion which the responsible advisers of the Crown entertain of Lord Canning's capacity, and the qualities which suit him for the discharge of that office, I might mention, what will not be regarded as a breach of confidence, that the Government of Lord Derby had so high an opinion of Lord Canning that they were ready to have confided to him the seals of the Foreign Office.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that the Austrian Government had informed the Government of this country that, on account of considerations of the health of the reserves of the Austrian army, they were to be allowed to go home on furlough, subject to being compelled to return to their ranks at a week's or a fortnight's notice, and that some of the cantonments of the Austrian army were to be changed also with reference to the health of the troops. No doubt every endeavour would be made not only to raise the numbers of our army to the proper amount, but also to replace the men who have volunteered from the militia into the line, or who have altogether retired.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the only information Her Majesty's Government have received with respect to the health of Lord Raglan is that he was labouring under a temporary indisposition, which would probably for a week or ten days render it necessary for him not to take any part in the active duties of his command. During that interval General Simpson will take the command, Sir George Brown, who would naturally have taken it, being also unwell on board ship; but Her Majesty's Government have reason to hope that a very few days will restore Lord Raglan to his ordinary health. The last accounts we received were that he was already considerably better.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he entirely
 356 357 l
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I know nothing of what passes between the Chairman and the Court of Directors. All that
 302
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I am sure, Sir, my hon. Friend has misunderstood what I said, though I imagined I had expressed myself very clearly. I stated that which is the fact—namely, that the appointment does not, as implied by his question, rest with the Crown—that it rests with the Court of Directors, but that the sanction of the Crown is necessary to give it validity; and consequently the invariable practice is, before the Chairman makes choice of an individual to be recommended to the Court of Directors, there is a full and unreserved communication between him and the Members of the Government for the purpose of avoiding those collisions which have taken place in former times with regard to the selection of Governor General. I need not particularise the cases to which I allude. Undoubtedly, that communication did take place between the Chairman and the Board of Control, and, upon full consideration of the persons whose names were mentioned in reference to the vacant office, it was the opinion of both parties that Lord Canning was the fittest person. When I am asked to explain the reasons, the only reasons I can give are that we had a high opinion of the
 305
 LORD STANLEY  said, a few words of explanation were necessary before putting a question of which he had given notice. The Regius Professorship of Civil Law at Oxford had been treated as almost a sinecure, but there had sprung up a general desire on the part of the University to render it more efficient. With that view, a new statute was proposed, according to which the office was endowed with 300 l. 372
 MR. E. ELLICE  said, he wished to propose a proviso to the effect, that no schoolmaster should hold the office of inspector of the poor after the passing of the Bill, except such as might now hold the office and were approved by the General Board.
 MR. E. ELLICE  said, he would withdraw his Amendment, and leave the matter in the hands of the Government.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, he should support the proviso, believing that the people of Scotland wished for some such declaration.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, the professions of the right hon. and learned Lord as to care for religious instruction were not carried out in the Bill. If the right hon. and learned Lord was sincere in those professions, it was unaccountable that he should always object to Amendments calculated to promote the object. The principle of the Bill was the separation of secular from religious education. Hitherto religious instruction had pervaded the whole of the education. Now it was to be given only at certain specified hours. The right hon. and learned Lord refused to introduce any guarantee for religious instruction.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, he would suggest that the inspectors under the Bill should be required simply to ascertain whether the means of education in their respective districts were inadequate, without limiting their inquiry to the education afforded merely, "by the parochial and burgh schools."
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, that if the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate would give him the  data l.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he would then give notice that whenever such a measure was brought forward he should be prepared to meet it with a direct negative.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that as the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Pakington) had alluded to him, and the next Bill on the Orders was one which he had introduced, he wished to say a few words. He honoured the right hon. Gentleman for the efforts he had made to raise the standard of education, and he agreed with him in the three principles he had laid down. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that it was desirable that popular education should be extended and improved, and that in extending and improving it, due consideration should be shown to those existing modes of education by which so much instruction had been afforded. He agreed also with the right hon. Gentleman in thinking that any system of education should be founded on a religious basis. He thought they would injure rather than serve future generations if they infused amongst the people an education in which religious instruction should not be given. At the same time, he also agreed with the right hon. Gentleman in thinking that, in doing this, they ought to respect the rights of conscience, and ought not to interfere with the religious convictions of the parents. When he spoke of exaggerated statements, he referred to the conclusion at which the right hon. Gentleman had arrived, and not to his statistics, which he admitted to be accurate and well founded. But he believed there was a value given to the education given in this country which was not to be found in the education given in some continental countries, although the number of scholars in those countries might be larger; and for that reason, that the people of this country had full religious liberty, and had open to them stores of literary study which his right hon. Friend (Mr. Macaulay) declared to be equal to the classical writings of antiquity. When it was
 386 The Old Woman of Berkeley, 387
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the Government wished to take time to consider the whole subject; though at the same time he should state that they fully contemplated renewing a measure next Session based upon the rating principle.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR : Sir, in answer to the question of the noble Lord who has just sat down, I beg to say that I am in rather an awkward predicament. Nobody likes to be mobbed and bullied out of a measure which was introduced with feelings and intentions so dissimilar from those which have been so industriously attributed to me. I hope that the House and the country will recollect that this is not a measure for the better observance of the Sabbath; that it interfered with no
 369 A cry of
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  said, the clause was very unpopular in Scotland, and he would vote for its omission.
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  said, he should move that the clause be omitted altogether. He agreed that no sound education could be given that was not based on religion; but he had so much faith in his countrymen that he was quite sure, without an enactment of the kind, a sound religious education would be given by the parents.
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he proposed to prefix to the clause the following words—
 "The religious instruction to be given in all Parochial and Public Schools under this Act shall be in accordance with that heretofore in use in the Parochial Schools of Scotland; but"
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, there were several efficient voluntary schools in his district, and he thought the ratepayers would feel it very hard on them if they were compelled to pay for the erection and support of another school.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he thought the object intended was to extinguish all voluntary schools in Scotland, which amounted to nearly 3,000 in number. He should, therefore, divide against the clause.
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, he hoped his hon. Friend would not be content with the alteration agreed to be made by the right hon. and learned Lord, and would press his Amendment.
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, he could not avoid making a remark upon the absence of English Members from the present discussion. There never was a more fatal error than for those hon. Gentlemen to suppose that the Bill would not affect their own country. If ever there was a case in which the rule of  Proximus ardet Ucalegon Nolumus Scotiœ leges mutari.
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, that the Motion of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hadfield) had been made without his concurrence, or that of those Scotch Members who had taken the same view of the Bill as himself. He had opposed the Bill at the second reading, but had been defeated; and, as he feared that by the use of an official instrument in the person of the right hon. Member for Wells (Mr. Hayter), any attempt of his to obtain a modification of the measure would be again defeated, he should, if the hon. Gentleman divided the Committee, vote in the same lobby with him.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he should oppose the Amendment, on the ground that it would fetter the discretion of school committees, who were the best judges of the propriety of allowing schoolmasters to engage in other occupations.
 MR. MIALL  said, he objected to the clause, on the ground that it was framed so as to exclude from the benefit of the Bill one-third of the Presbyterians of Scotland.
 MR. MIALL  said, there might be some
 377
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that, since the general feeling of the Committee appeared to be against it, he would not persist in his Amendment.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he begged to move "That the Bill, having been officially declared by the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate of Scotland to be exclusively a Presbyterian Bill, and not, as it stated in the title thereof, 'A Bill to provide for the Education of the People of Scotland,' and that such declaration having been approved by the Committee of Council on Education; and considering that all denominations of Christians in Scotland, except Presbyterians, and others would be virtually excluded from partaking of the benefits intended to be provided by such Bill, though they would be liable to be assessed under the same; and also, considering that the several bodies of Presbyterians are disagreed among themselves as to the objects intended to be promoted by the said Bill, or mode of accomplishing the same, and the restrictions and conditions thereof, while some of them are actively and entirely opposed to the said Bill; and considering, further, the numerous petitions that have recently been presented against it, it is resolved that the Chairman do report progress." The Bill was now completely altered from its original shape, and instead of its being a measure to provide for the education of the whole people of Scotland, it was only intended to benefit one section—the Presbyterians. Neither the Episcopalians nor the Roman Catholics were to be at all benefited by the Bill; and of the Presbyterians, two out of the five sects into which
 374
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that whenever the measure was brought forward again, he should feel it his duty to give it his strenuous opposition.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he should support the Motion for the omission of the clause, and he did so because it was wrong and an injustice to tax people in support of an institution in which they were not par-
 382
 MR. VANSITTART  said, as an English Member, he must protest against the compulsory spirit of the provision, than which nothing could be more worthy of the Inquisition. It was also directly antagonistic to the system under which the Privy Council distributed its educational grants.
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he considered the Bill entirely opposed to the principle which had, up to this time, done so much for education in the country—that of allowing every sect to instruct their own children. The concession which had been made was entirely in the spirit of the solemn league and covenant.
 MR. GRANVILLE VERNON  said, he would beg to ask the noble Lord whether he would propose in the present Session
 388
 MR. GRANVILLE VERNON  said, he hoped that the noble Lord would take steps for the appointment of a Minister in that House to represent the Committee of Council, for, in his opinion, the expenditure of the large sums of money which were annually voted for educational purposes ought to be brought more directly before the House.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that by the 9th clause it would be the duty of the inspectors to furnish to the Secretary of State detailed reports of the educational condition of each district, so that the wants of each burgh or parish in Scotland would be accurately known. He agreed with the hon. Member for Fifeshire (Mr. Fergus) that the Bill would not in all respects reach the existing amount of educational destitution, and it might be a question hereafter whether some kind of compulsory system ought not to be adopted. But, before they rendered it compulsory upon parents to send their children to school, there must be schools provided for them in every district. If, by the clause now under consideration, all private schools were to be recognised it would render the Bill completely nugatory. He therefore entreated the Committee not to destroy the integrity of the clause, which was, indeed, the very hinge of the Bill.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, the object of the Bill was to establish complete uniformity in the schools to be provided by the measure, irrespective of the voluntary schools. His object was to extend the parochial schools and make them adequate to the wants of the people of Scotland. They had a national system of education in Scotland, but there were great deficiencies in it.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that after the wishes expressed by hon. Members in various quarters he was willing to adopt the suggestion made by the hon. Member for Perthshire (Mr. Stirling).
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that although in many cases, great inconvenience had undoubtedly resulted from schoolmasters having undertaken duties entirely unconnected with the management of their schools, yet in the Highland districts, it might frequently be impossible to find any persons except the schoolmasters who were qualified to act as inspectors. He would therefore suggest that it should be left, not to the school committees, but
 380
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he wished to propose the addition of the following proviso—
 "Provided always, that it shall not be necessary for any industrial or Reformatory School in Scotland, in order to obtain the sanction of the Secretary of State, under an Act passed in the seventeenth and eighteenth year of the reign of Her present Majesty, intituled 'An Act to render Reformatory and Industrial Schools in Scotland more available for the benefit of vagrant children,' to provide accommodation within the premises of such school for the lodging and residence of such vagrant children. Provided always, that the rules of such school are otherwise satisfactory as provided by the said Act; and so much of the said Act as restricts the power of the sheriff to transmit vagrant children to such school or schools within his jurisdiction is hereby repealed."
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that at present there was in every school in Scotland, with few exceptions, an hour set apart for religions instruction, during which children belonging to other denominations were not bound to attend. He thought it desirable to put that in the Bill, to show that the old practice in Scotland was to be continued. At the same time he did not like to legislate more than was necessary on religious subjects, and thought the proposed words unnecessary, their substance being set forth in the preamble of the Bill.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he must deny the assertion of the hon. Member for Ayrshire: the Bill only carried out the
 381
 MR. FERGUS  said, he thought, if a statistical return could be properly made, the amount of educational destitution would be found much greater than was believed. He believed, too, that the Bill—which he admitted was, as far as it went, a good measure—would fail to reach the educational wants of the country. Such means as were now adopted, relying upon the parents' will alone, would never bring education to the children in those great towns where it was most needed, and he could not help thinking that a compulsory system must sooner or later be established.
 MR. FERGUS  said, he very much regretted that the Amendment did not go further, for schoolmasters in Scotland were frequently employed not merely as inspectors of the poor, but as sessions clerks, land surveyors, and in other capacities. He knew one parish in Fifeshire, where the schoolmaster was employed as inspector of the poor, and he believed that during the last five years the highest number of children who had attended the school at the same time had been ten or twelve.
 MR. WIGRAM  said, he must beg to express his gratification at the statement made by the noble Lord. The value of the existing system could not be overrated. Mr. Mann said, that within five or six years from the present time there would be, according to the past progress of the existing system, fully one in every six of the population receiving all the advantages of it.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he thought that in many parishes the schoolmaster was the person best qualified to act as inspector of the poor, and that he could discharge the duties of such an office without neglecting his duties as schoolmaster.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he would now move, as an Amendment, to omit the words, "That it shall be in the power of such meeting, by the votes of a majority then present, to resolve that such additional school shall be established," objecting to the power thus given to any
 379
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he must condemn the attempt to set up an educational "platform," establishing a forced uniformity throughout the country, with schoolmasters' salaries at 50 l.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, that in none of the clauses was it enacted that the religious instruction referred to in the preamble should be given.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he objected to the proposed Amendment, on the ground of its introducing matter not originally contemplated by the Bill, namely, the reformation of criminal offenders.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he wished to inquire why the clause should only take cognisance of the existence of burgh and
 376
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he must advert to the injustice of taxing all districts alike, without reference to their requirements. He would point out the case of Heriot's Hospital, in Edinburgh, from the revenues of which schools had been established in various districts. Under the clause proposed Edinburgh would be assessed for schools as though such institutions had never existed there.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that it now became his duty to explain what he intended to do with his Bill. He presented a petition, signed by 62,000 of the adult male population of Manchester and Salford, in favour of a secular system of education, supported by local rates and applied by local authority. No less than 170 public meetings, held in twenty-eight different counties, decided in favour of the same plan. Indeed, no other plan, if to be supported by rates, met with any acceptance at all. The people of this country would not sanction a general system of rating for the teaching in schools of all religions, because it would be absurd, nor for the teaching of any one form of religion, because it would be unjust. He believed that if the State were to interfere in education at all, it had better confine itself to giving secular education in the schools, leaving religion to the care of the parents and the ministers of religion. He should regret if those whom he represented felt disappointed at the course he should take, but, under the circumstances in which he was placed, he could do nothing else than follow the example which had been set him, and withdraw his Bill. He should, however, bring forward his plan next Session.
 MR. BARROW  said, he was anxious for religious instruction, for he believed that secular instruction alone did not deserve the name of education. The right hon. and learned Lord declared that the Bill would not interfere with religious instruction; but if containing no guarantee for such instruction, it would surely produce the impression that secular instruction alone might be sufficient.
 MR. W. LOCKHART  said, he should oppose the Amendment on the ground that there were many small parishes in Scotland in which it would be impossible to find a fit person to act as inspector of the poor, unless the parochial schoolmasters were permitted to take office.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government how it was proposed to deal with the money which had been voted for education in England and Wales? According to the calculation of the hon. Member for Berwickshire (Mr. F. Scott), a sum of 200,000 l. l. l. l. l.
 SIR ARCHIBALD CAMPBELL  said, he considered the provision calculated to suppress voluntary efforts to promote education.
 SIR ARCHIBALD CAMPBELL  said, he would not say that the object of the Bill was to take the education of the people out of the hands of those who now had the control of it, and to transfer it into the hands of the Government, but he certainly considered that such would be the effect of the measure.
 MR. OTWAY : I beg, Sir, to congratulate the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex upon the course he has so judiciously adopted; but, while I do so, I cannot help expressing my sincere regret that the noble Lord on a former occasion, when he was called upon not to go on with the Bill, did not conform to what appeared to be the general sentiment of the House. ["No, no!"] But, whether that be so or not, I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department a question relative to the proceedings which took place yesterday, and which I believe to be attributable mainly to the vacillation of the right hon. Gentleman. The Government has entirely abdicated its functions as a Government in this House with regard to this Bill. The noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) has expressed himself in a most flippant manner with regard to it, and the course taken by the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary having been most vacillating and uncertain, I believe that to that conduct is to he attributed the tumult in Hyde Park yesterday, the loss of life which I believe to have also occurred, and the incarceration of 104 of our fellow-citizens in the gaols of this town. Since the noble Lord (Lord R. Grosvenor)
 370
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, I do not know to what the hon. Member refers when he speaks of my vacillation. I do not remember the hon. Gentleman taking any part in the Committee against this Bill. [Mr. OTWAY: I voted against the second reading.] In the Committee, when the discussion took place, I expressed my opinion regarding several of the clauses, and I was prepared to express it again upon the subsequent part of the Bill if the noble Lord had proceeded with it. With regard to this Bill I do not know that I am justly chargeable with vacillation. It has already been stated that this was not a Government Bill, having been introduced by the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex. With regard to the proceedings in question, I was informed by the Commissioners of Police that several notices had been published in different parts of the metropolis calling upon persons to assemble in large numbers in Hyde Park on Sunday, with the evident intention of creating disturbance and disorder. Now it is the privilege of the people of this metropolis—a privilege which is not enjoyed in an equal degree by the inhabitants of any large city upon the Continent—to have the free enjoyment of the parks in and about London, and I do not know a more gratifying sight than to see the people thus assembled for the purpose of enjoying themselves. But nothing could be a greater dereliction from duty on the part of any person holding the office that I do than to allow a monster meeting, summoned by public advertisement, to take place in one of the public parks on Sunday, thus interfering with the right of enjoyment by all persons in those parks. The police, therefore, under my direction, issued a notice warning persons against assembling for the purpose contemplated, and a body of police; was stationed in different parts of the park. But it was not until the carriage road had been obstructed, and hooting and noise had taken place, which caused
 371
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he trusted that the Committee would at once proceed to discuss the details of the measure, as those hon. Gentlemen who objected to its principle would have an opportunity of opposing it on the third reading.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he did not wish to deprive any child of secular education; he only wanted an enactment that religious instruction should be given in some way, and he proposed to secure it by requiring a certificate from the minister.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he wished to move a proviso to the clause, to the effect that in cases of non-attendance on religious instruction, the parents or guardians of the children objecting should produce a certificate from the ministers of the religious denominations to which they belonged, that they received religious instruction. He thought it of the greatest importance that care should be taken that the children should receive religious instruction of some kind. That was the first time a Bill had been introduced by the Government separating religious from secular instruction.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that he stated last week that he would on an early day declare the course he should take with regard to the Education Bill under his charge, and he should now move that the Order of the Day for the adjourned debate on the second reading be discharged. He had two reasons for taking that course—firstly, on any business with which he was connected he was always desirous of meeting the wishes of the House, and he believed that it was the wish of the House that they should not spend any more nights at that period of the Session in debating measures which were not to be passed into law. Another reason was, that in his belief any division which might be taken on the Bill would be taken now under serious disadvantages. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had offered Friday night for the resumption of the adjourned debate, but assuming that the House came to a decision then, which was by no means certain, it would be taken after debates which had taken place on three different occasions, the first in the month of May, the second in the month of June, and the third in the month of July. A subject of such great importance ought certainly not to be settled except after full, close, and consecutive discussion. Looking then to the magnitude of the question, he thought that he should best discharge his duty by not proceeding with the Bill during the present Session. He might, however, be allowed to say that he had devoted much thought and labour to the measure, and he could not part with it without expressing an earnest hope that the House would not let such an important subject rest where it was, and that in an early Session, he hoped the next Session, the question would be brought to a settlement on the principles laid down in his Bill. He believed the question could not be settled on any other principles. Those principles were these—First, that there should be no unnecessary interference with existing agencies, which had done and were doing much good. Secondly, that the deficiencies of existing agencies should be supplied by means of a public fund, ad-
 384 385
 MR. STIRLING  said, he fully concurred in the objection taken by the hon. Member for Stirlingshire (Mr. Blackburn), and, with a view to obviate it, he would beg to move, that after the word "parochial," the word "and" should be struck out; and that after the word "burgh," the words "and other" should be inserted, so that the clause would run thus—
 "Whenever the Inspector had ascertained that the means of education afforded by the parochial, burgh, and other schools were inadequate, he should report the same to the Board."
 VISCOUNT GODERICH : Sir, I wish to ask the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex whether it is his intention to proceed with the Sunday Trading Bill?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that the Vote which would be taken that year for the purpose of education would be applied in the same manner as former Votes, under the direction of the Committee of Privy Council. The hon. Member for Lambeth was, however, mistaken in supposing that the Bill, if passed, would involve so large an increase in the allowance for education in Scotland as he had stated. It was impossible to state precisely, until the surveys were made, what would be the total amount required, but he (Lord Palmerston) thought it would not exceed 80,000 l. 375
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, when it became his duty to take steps for filling up the Regius Professorship of Civil Law at Oxford he was deeply impressed with the necessity, adverted to by the noble Lord, that the office should become really efficient, and not continue, as it had been, very inefficient. The name of Dr. Twiss was suggested to him as that of a gentleman eminent in his profession by his talents and acquirements, and highly qualified to fill that appointment. He communicated with Dr. Twiss, and put to him to consider whether it would suit him, in accepting the office, to engage to perform all those local duties which might be required, either by any new regulations or any existing statute. It being desirable that the appointment should be filled up without any further delay, Dr. Twiss accepted it, with the distinct pledge on his part that if any new regulations should be established which should render the performance of his duties at Oxford incompatible with his avocations in London, he would resign the appointment as readily as he then provisionally accepted it. Therefore, it so stood that the appointment of Dr. Twiss in no degree tied the hands of the University with regard to any regulations they might make for residence, lectures, or any other duties connected with the Professorship of Civil Law.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  appeared at the Bar of the House, and, being called on by Mr. SPEAKER, announced a Message from HER MAJESTY.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I propose, Sir, that Her Majesty's most gracious Message be taken into consideration in a Committee of the whole House to-morrow at six o'clock.
 THE CHAIRMAN  read the Queen's Message of yesterday—
 MR. FITZROY : I have only to say, that after the freedom of debate which I have seen exercised on such occasions as the present, it is not competent for me to stop the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. FITZROY  said, the Question is—
 "That the annual sum of 1,000 1. "Also, that the annual sum of 2,000 l.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he wished to move, by way of Amendment, to substitute for Clauses 17, 18, 22 and 23 in the separate paper, that the taking of the poll of the ratepayers on an election should be by means of voting papers. In the parish of St. Pancras there were 20,000 ratepayers, and yet at the last election for the vestry, not with standing there was considerable excitement, not more than 3,500 voted. Either it was desirable that the ratepayers should take part in these elections or not; and, if desirable, the course he recommended would afford them an opportunity of doing so. It might be said that the system of voting by papers would open a door to fraud; but he believed that after making every allowance for fraud, a much truer representation of the constituency would be obtained by the system than was done by the present mode of voting. In order, therefore, to admit of his Amendment being introduced, he should oppose the adoption of the Clauses 17, 18, 22, and 23.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he considered the noble Lord to be most unfortunate in his proposition. It was a system based upon fraud. The noble Lord had referred to the parish of St. Pancras, but what was the case with respect to that parish? Notwithstanding there was only one polling-place, between 5,000 and 6,000 ratepayers attended and gave their vote at the late election—and this number would be materially increased when, as was proposed by the Bill, there should be eight polling-places. If the right hon. Baronet (Sir B. Hall) should agree to the Amendment, he would be committing the greatest possible error.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he must deny that the whole system of voting by papers collected from the houses of the ratepayers would be tainted with fraud.
 MR. WILKINSON  said, he differed from his hon. Colleague (Mr. Williams), for he was of opinion, even if the plan proposed by the noble Lord were not accepted, that some mode of collecting the votes of the ratepayers different from the existing system should be devised. Practically, the system of voting by papers not only and really enlarged the circle of voters, but introduced into it a far more respectable class of voters.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, the plan proposed by the noble Lord was not a new mode of voting in the metropolis. It had been acted upon in some cases for the last ten years. It was perfectly true that the Boards of Guardians were desirous that the elections of their body should be continued in the way in which they were now conducted—namely, by voting papers; but he had received communications from many individuals, saying that they preferred the mode of voting as proposed by the Bill. They must all know, as practical men, that if they wished a great scheme, such as the Bill embodied, to be carried out, they must make it palatable to those who had the carrying of it out. He thought that if the Bill could be made odious and unmanageable it would be by adopting the Amendment of his noble Friend.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he could not concur with the right hon. Baronet in thinking that the Bill would be ruined by the adoption of the Amendment. As far as regarded the election of the Boards of Guardians, the system of voting by papers had worked well.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, he should support the Amendment, as it would be the means of obtaining the votes of a much larger number of voters than could be obtained by the present system.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that by increasing the number of polling-places, as it was proposed to do, a larger number of ratepayers would have convenient means of voting. He believed there existed a very strong opinion on the part of the ratepayers that the present system should be continued.
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, he approved theoretically of the principle involved in the Amendment, and, as a proof of it, he had himself proposed that the system of voting
 410
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, it appeared to him that the balance of argument was in favour of voting by papers. Now, the question really came to this—whether the inspector should come to the voter, or the voter to the inspector. And what ought to be considered was, which of the two systems would be most convenient to the ratepayers. It was not at all necessary to have police inspectors; all that was requisite was to take securities against fraud. Now, the system of voting by papers certainly appeared most convenient.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he quite agreed that the question should be determined upon the principle stated by the right hon. Baronet (Sir H. Willoughby) as to what was most convenient for the ratepayer. He heard that very great irregularities had arisen in the system of voting by papers; but, on the other hand, there was doubtless great force in the arguments in favour of that system. But as the public feeling appeared at present to be against it, he thought that it would be best to retain the clauses as they stood.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he did not propose, as in the then state of the House (hardly twenty-five Members present), it would be useless—to press his Motion to a division, but he retained his opinion, and rejoiced at its reception. He also reserved the right of bringing forward the question at a future stage and in a fuller House.
 MR. MASTERMAN  said, he wished to bring forward a clause, providing that any works to be done respecting the sewers within the city of London should be executed by the City Commissioners of Sewers out of the rates raised by them within the city; but, in case they should not execute such works, then the Metropolitan Board might execute the same and require the Chamberlain of the city to pay the expenses. He considered that to be a very reasonable request.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he was very sorry he could not agree with the proposition. His hon. Friend had called it a very reasonable request on the part of the city of London, but he (Sir B. Hall),
 411
 MR. CUBITT  said, he had been asked to support the clause, and it was the first time he had any idea that the City of London had any object which did not appear on the face of the clause. He thought it not an unreasonable request on the part of the City of London.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he was opposed to the clause, as it would be introducing two sets of Commissioners instead of one to superintend the great works to be carried on.
 MR. MASTERMAN  said, he must express his surprise at the imputation cast by the right hon. Baronet (Sir B. Hall) on the City of London. He denied that the city wished to escape from the general taxation for carrying on those works. All they desired was to be allowed to execute the works within the city themselves.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he was of opinion that the City Commissioners executed their work in the best possible manner, in an engineering point of view, and also economically. He saw no objection to their being allowed to execute their own work.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he would move that the word "one" be substituted for the word "two," the effect of which Amendment would be to reduce the number of members constituting the Board.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, when he proposed that the Board should consist of forty-two members, it was suggested that that number would be too large. He then promised to consider whether the Board could not be reduced to a number not less than thirty. But since that time a great increase of labour, not contemplated when the Bill was originally drawn, had been added to the duties of the Board by the recommendation of a Committee which had been sitting upstairs in reference to buildings; and that being the case, he did not think that forty-two was by any means too large a number for the discharge of the various onerous duties of the Board.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, it had already been made a matter of complaint that there were too many districts, and yet the hon. Baronet proposed to create an additional district. There were thirty-six districts, and he would have one more, which would make it thirty-seven. There was no good ground for the proposition. Neither in respect to area, population, or rental had Poplar any claim to be made a distinct district. There were
 413
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he felt that he should not be discharging his duty if he did not take that opportunity of expressing his thanks to the House for the forbearance which had been shown on all sides in the progress of that important measure through the Committee, and for the able assistance which had been given by the House to pass the Bill through its several stages up to the present.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : Without any desire to touch upon the prerogatives of the Crown, I wish to ask the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) the First Lord of the Treasury, whether it is intended to recommend the issue of the existing decorations of the Bath without reference to the projected order of merit contemporaneously with the eminent services which deserved them, especially at a time when gallant officers—some, indeed, already formally recommended for distinction were in hourly exposure to loss of life, and therefore, in the case of death, whether it would not be proper to date back the  Gazette
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : Let me just say one word. I respond most cordially to the sentiments expressed by the noble Lord, the right hon. Gentleman, and the gallant officer, and concur in every expression they have uttered of admiration and esteem for the illustrious dead; the individual is past our gratitude, but his name survives, and to his family we can evince the admiration justly due to his memory. We have the consolation of knowing that his reputation is now beyond the reach of misfortune, that from the grave his virtues and merits find a voice in every sentiment, that of united admiration and respect that is felt towards the dead; but let me repeat that no others participate more heartily and sincerely than the officers of the navy do.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, after an acquaintance of many years with Lord Raglan, I cannot deny myself the melancholy satisfaction of joining my voice with those who have preceded me on this occasion. Lord Raglan's qualities were truly heroic. His courage, his composure, the conciliation which he manifested, were carried to a point which was truly heroic; although, as these were qualities which were not ostentatiously displayed, they did not appear as great as they really were. It was his unaffected simplicity of character which made him stand so high. I have felt that, amidst the perils and disadvantages of last winter, when the army might have become relaxed in its discipline, the knowledge that they had in their Commander in Chief such a commander as Lord Raglan—one who had been the companion
 423
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I must postpone giving any answer until the question of the policy of the Government is before the House, and there will be more than one opportunity for bringing that subject forward. I will only say, at present, that the right hon. Gentleman has totally misrepresented the facts.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I rise to second the Resolutions of the noble Lord, which I doubt not will meet with the unanimous acceptance and approbation of this House. After half a century of public service, all that which was noble and sometimes illustrious ought not to be permitted to pass away without the record and recognition of a nation's gratitude. The career of Lord Raglan was remarkable. Forty years ago he sealed with his blood the brilliant close of a great struggle against the danger of universal empire, and after that long interval he has given to his country his life, in order to guard it against the menaces of a new and overwhelming enemy. The qualities of Lord Raglan were remarkable, and it may be doubted whether they will be supplied by a successor, however able. That which, perhaps, most distinguished him was an elevation and serenity of mind that invested him, as it were, with a heroic and classical repose—that permitted him to bring to the management of men and the transaction of great affairs the magic influence of character—and that often in his case accomplished results otherwise produced by the inspiration of genius. Perhaps there is no instance on record in which valour of so high a character was so happily and so singularly allied to so disciplined a discretion. Never were courage and caution united in so great a degree of either quality. Sir, over the tomb of the great departed criticism must be silent; but even here it must be permitted to all of us to remember that the course of events has sanctioned the judgment of that commander with respect to those difficulties with which it was his hard fate to cope, but which his country must recollect he did not choose or create. May those who succeed him encounter a happier fortune; they will not need a more glorious end, for there is nothing more admirable than self-sacrifice to public duty. That was the principle which regulated the life of Somerset; it was the principle which he carried with him to the grave. Sir, I feel great pride in seconding the Resolutions.
 MR. H. HERBERT : Sir, I rise to order, and I will appeal to you whether such a question as this can be legitimately raised by the right hon. Gentleman while the original Motion remains still before us.
 MR. RICH  said, he rose to move—
 "That the authorised system of purchase and sale of commissions, promotions, and exchanges in the army has failed in its principal object, is unjust in its working, is openly transgressed in its pecuniary regulations, and is in direct violation of the principles and practice of the Government in all other departments of the State; and that, therefore, it should be continued no longer than is necessary for the just and gradual satisfaction of the claims of individuals and of the State." 430
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : As the noble Lord has charged me with misrepresentation, I beg to say when the noble Lord charges me with misrepresentation—[ Cries of 429
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Now that this question is over, I beg to ask whether the noble Lord, as a Minister of the Crown, will condescend to explain whether the views which he entertains upon the last proposition submitted by Austria at the Conferences at Vienna are the same as those which he entertained when acting as British Plenipotentiary? As a Member of Parliament, I conceive that I am entitled to put this question.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I shall be really most happy to bow to the inclination of the Committee, if it wishes the discussion to be continued, and if any other hon. Gentleman wishes to address it; but I really thought that the question before us had been disposed of—["No.no!"] Well, I feel I have a right to make any observations I please on this occasion upon the policy of the administration, and so I shall proceed. Now, Sir, the circular to which I alluded I hold in my hand, and that circular states—
 "The before-named Ministers of France and England, in a confidential interview, showed themselves decidedly inclined to our proposal, and they undertook to recommend its adoption to their Governments with all their influence." "The Austrian Government were surprised at receiving, not the acceptance of the British administration to their proposal—but they were surprised at receiving the opposition of the English Ministers to the views of their colleagues in the conference." 426 427
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, without wishing to appear to dissent in any way from the wishes of the Committee, I desire to take this legitimate and constitutional opportunity of making some inquiries of the Government in reference to the policy which they are now pursuing in the East, and the objects they are now seeking to accomplish—[ Cries of 424 425
 SIR DE LACY EVANS : I feel, Sir, a melancholy pleasure in offering a few words in support of the Motion now before the Committee, although I feel that it is impossible for me to add anything to the admirable addresses just delivered by the noble Lord at the head of the Government and the right hon. Gentleman opposite. But, Sir, having for many years enjoyed
 421 422
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, there are times and seasons for all things. The right hon. Gentleman must, of course, be the best judge of what it is fitting to introduce upon the present occasion; but I must say that I differ from the view which he appears to have adopted on the present occasion. I can only say that, although Her Majesty's Government have been ready at all times, and will be ready in all future time, to defend their course of action, and to explain that which they think requires explanation, I will not be led by any taunts of the right hon. Gentle man, or by any challenge which I may receive,
 428
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I rise to perform one of the most painful duties which can fall to a Minister of the Crown; at the same time it is one which is not devoid of feelings of consolation, and which will, I am sure, at all times secure the sympathy of the House, and be accompanied and supported by the sanction and approbation of the country. It is the privilege of the people of a free country to share with their Sovereign in the manifestation of those feeling of gratitude and in the warmth of those acknowledgments, which are due to the heroic men who devote themselves to the military and naval service of their country, and who on foreign fields sustain the honour and dignity, and maintain the interests of the nation. Other nations, which are not so fortunate in their constitutional institutions, are obliged
 415 416 1. l. l. l. 417 "Where honour calls, where honour leads the
way, The sons of honour follow and obey," 418 419
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the Order of the Bath would be conferred, without reference to the order of merit, by an entirely separate arrangement. With regard to the latter part of the question, the hon. and gallant Gentleman must be aware that the insignia of the Order of the Bath were restored to the Crown at the death of the person to whom they had been granted, and, therefore, that they could not continue to be heirlooms in the families of individuals who had earned those distinctions. The names of those who had been recommended for the Order of the Bath, but who had been prevented by death from having that honour conferred upon them, would be published, with notices of
 414
 MR. G. BUTT  said, that his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Atherton), who brought the Bill in was absent, and had not intended, he believed, to press it forward at a period when it could scarcely be expected to pass during the present Session.
 MR. G. BUTT  proposed an Amendment to omit certain words, for the purpose of introducing a new clause.
 MR. BUTT  assented.
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he wished to add the following new clause also to Clause 6—
 "And whereas by the hereinbefore recited Act, passed in the ninth year of the reign of His late Majesty King George II., it was also enacted, that from and after the 24th day of June, 1736, no sum or sums of money, goods, chattels, stocks in the public funds, securities for money, or any other personal estate whatsoever to be laid out or disposed of in the purchase of any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, should be given, appointed, or any ways settled in trust or for the benefit of any charitable uses whatsoever, unless such gift, appointment, or settlement of any such sum or sums of money or personal estate (other than stocks in the public funds) were made in the same manner and subject to the same conditions as are by the now reciting Act enacted and prescribed in reference to corporeal or incorporeal hereditaments, and unless such stocks were transferred in the manner and subject to the conditions in the same recited Act also enacted and prescribed in reference to such stocks; and whereas doubts have been entertained as to the meaning of the last here in before recited enactment, be it enacted, that no bequest contained in any will heretofore or hereafter to be made for any charitable uses whatsoever, which bequest is or shall be valid in all other respects, shall be deemed to be null and void within the meaning of the last here in before recited enactment, unless by the will containing such bequest it shall be imperatively required that the subject matter of such bequest shall be laid out or disposed of in the purchase of lands, tenements, or hereditaments."
 MR. HADFIELD  observed, that if it did not go through the Committee this day, it would be certainly lost for the present Session. He should press the Motion.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he trusted the House would proceed with the Bill. If it did not go through Committee that day it might not pass this Session, and there was no opposition to it.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, as the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Headlam) who had charge of the Bill was not present, he thought it would be better to postpone it.
 SIR G. GREY  suggested, that it should be put after the other orders.
 SIR G. GREY  observed, that the words could, of course, be re-introduced if the new clauses were not agreed to.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he should make no opposition to the clause, on the understanding that his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General, who was unavoidably absent, should at a future stage take what course he thought proper with respect to it.
 MR. MOWBRAY  thought the absence of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Head-lam) was attributable to some misunderstanding.
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, he would now beg to propose to add a new clause to the Bill, the object of which was to do away with the distinction which had hitherto obtained between pure personalty and realty. He had done so on the recommendation of Mr. Pemberton Leigh, made in the evidence he gave before the Mortmain Committee. The clause he had to move, as an addition to Clause 6, was as follows—
 "And whereas it has been held, on the construction of the first-recited Act, that a pecuniary bequest to or in trust for any charitable use is void under the provisions of the said Act, to the extent of the proportion which the assets of the testator, consisting of personalty savouring of realty, bear to the assets of the testator consisting of pure personalty; and if the assets of the testator consist entirely of personalty savouring of realty, then that such bequest is wholly void, and by the rules of courts of equity the assets are not marshalled in favour of such bequest, whereby the lawful intentions of testators are often disappointed: be it enacted, that no pecuniary bequest to or in trust for any charitable use contained in any will or codicil made after the passing of this Act shall fail or abate by reason only that the assets of the testator shall consist wholly or in part of personalty savouring of realty, but every such
 432
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, there were no Amendments. There were only two new clauses to be proposed; to which he did not believe there was any objection.
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, he believed that his hon. and learned Colleague was only absent accidentally. Probably it had better be proceeded with.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, several Amendments were on the paper: were the hon. Members who proposed them present?
 CAPTAIN LEICESTER VERNON  said, he begged to inquire of the hon. Gentleman the Clerk to the Ordnance whether, of the fifty-six gentlemen who it was said were to be commissioned in the scientific corps in the course of the month, it was intended to give precedence to the thirty admitted to the practical class in March last, without examination, over the remaining twenty-six, all of whom entered as cadets at the Royal Military Academy at Woolwich, and many of them at the Ordnance School at Carshalton, and all of whom had passed through all the examinations of the theoretical course, which up to the present time was the absolutely necessary qualification by which commissions could be obtained at all, it being rumoured that one, if not more, of these thirty-six gentlemen had failed at the examination for admission to the academy, when others of the twenty-six cadets had succeeded; the reported sole reason for such precedence being, that the thirty gentlemen were between the ages of seventeen and nineteen, whereas the ages of the twenty-six cadets were something under seventeen years.
 MR. MONSBLL  said, that the practical class at Woolwich was composed of two divisions; that the civil cadets had now, in their regular turn, become the senior division to be commissioned; that, under ordinary circumstances, this senior division alone would be commissioned in August, but that, owing to the pressing exigencies of affairs, the junior division would be commissioned at the same time. It was thought, however, that it would be unjust to the senior division not to commission
 452
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  complained that through the noise going on it was really quite impossible to say what was taking place.
 MR. FITZROY  stated that the question before the Committee was the postponement of Clause 12.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he differed from the right hon. Gentleman, for he believed that it was very material, that the clause should remain as it stood at present.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he also thought it would be best to take Mr. Speaker's opinion. He did not concur that Members who had been outside the door when the question was put were not entitled to vote. If the doors had been locked, any Member found in the gallery might be compelled to vote, of which he had known several instances.
 MR. DEASY  said he should oppose the Amendment, and would suggest, as the term "rent" was a very uncertain one, that the words to be introduced, if any such were necessary, should be "four years' net value of the land," instead of "four years' net rent."
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, he was surprised to find the right hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, attempting by a sort of special pleading to wriggle out of the support of a clause which was much milder in its character than the corresponding provision of the measure which he had himself introduced. The right hon. and learned Gentleman's clause was retrospective without limit as to time, whereas the present one contained such a limit, and, in addition, protected the landlord by requiring the tenant to give him notice, within, twelve months after the passing of the Bill, of his intention to claim compensation. Yet the right hon. and learned Gentleman made the insertion of that very necessary proviso the excuse for his now opposing the clause altogether. Now, no doubt, retrospective legislation was unsound in principle, but the exceptional
 481
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, I he must deny that the present was a question which concerned land only. If that precedent were once made, every species of property, whether agricultural or commercial, would be affected by it. The principle on which the Bill was justified, if once admitted, must be extended to all kinds of property, and Parliament must interfere to remedy all grievances connected with property of every kind—such, for instance, as the exemption from poor rates possessed by funded property. The Solicitor-General for Ireland had attempted to induce the Committee to consent to the clause by arguing that the privilege given to the tenant was so fenced round, that it could not do any possible harm; but what was the meaning of that? Simply, that the largest sacrifice of principle was made, and the least possible good derived from it. The hon. and learned Gentleman talked, too, of the present measure being a settlement of the question; but it was his opinion, that he was very much mistaken if he thought so. Not a party in Ireland interested in the subject was satisfied with the Bill. From the north to the south, there was a universal cry of opposition to the Bill, which the hon. and learned Gentleman affected to call a settlement of the question. It would actually put the tenants in the north in a worse position than they were at present; for, in future, instead of enjoying the rights or privileges which custom now conferred on them, the landlords would insist on confining them to the strict letter of the Act of Parliament. So that the Bill, while in the south it took away the property of the landlord and gave it to the tenant, in the north it took away the property of the tenant and gave it to the landlord. The noble Lord at the head of the Government admitted, that this was exceptional legislation, arguing, however, that it was necessary. But why was it necessary? Because, all legislation for Ireland for many years past had been exceptional. The evil was that everything connected with Ireland was made exceptional, and therefore he urged the House to insist on the maintenance of those honest principles in accordance with which alone legislation could safely proceed.
 MR. FITZROY  stated, that he was anxious to submit for the decision of the Speaker a question which had arisen upon the Proceedings in the Committee which had just reported.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he was one of those whose votes had been challenged, and he acknowledged that, after the decision of Mr. Speaker, it must be struck out; but he would point out that there was not sufficient room in the House for all the Members. He congratulated his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Malins) on the great grievance he had discovered. He (the Attorney General) was engaged with his hon. and learned Colleague the Solicitor General in arduous studies in the lobby before the division took place, and he was a little too late to get in before the question was put. The hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (the Member for Wallingford), with a vigilance which showed his extreme anxiety for the observance of the forms of the House, even in a case in which it could not be of the slightest importance, and actuated, no doubt, by a high sense of public duty, thought proper to interfere. He would therefore venture to suggest, in consequence of the decision which had been come to, that some steps ought to be taken for enlarging the boundaries of the House.
 MR. FITZROY  said, the decision which had been given by Mr. Speaker rendered
 488
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that the old rule was that nobody could vote who was not within the four walls. In the old House nobody could doubt what was meant by "the four walls," but the present difficulty arose from the double wall caused by the division lobbies. By the strict rule
 476
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that a vote could not be challenged after the doors were unlocked.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he wished to ask how it would be possible to make the objection if it were irregular to discuss the question after the division was over?
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, that one medical man maintained that them was no such thing as a nuisance injurious to health.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, it was not so at common law.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, there were means, of course, of ascertaining whether the doors were unlocked or not by examining witnesses at the bar. But one thing was certain, that the objection was taken, by his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Malins) before the doors could possibly be unlocked. The single vote was of no importance on the present occasion, but there were certain rules—the result of the experience of those who had preceded them in that House—to which they ought always to adhere. There might be occasions when a single vote might be of the utmost importance—the Act of Settlement, for instance, was carried only by a majority of one—and therefore it was desirable to adhere strictly to the rule.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he thought the matter was become one of some gravity. They were now advanced into July, and every one desired that business should be conducted as rapidly as possible, but if the principle was to be laid down that no
 475
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the question was whether the right hon. Gentleman heard the question put?
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that if an hon. Member was within the House it should be assumed that he heard the question put, but if he was not within the House then he was not entitled to vote.
 MR. DISRAELI.  We reserve to ourselves, however, the right to strike off the votes of any other hon. Members given under similar circumstances.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he would suggest that the words "nuisance" and "injury," were absolutely synonymous; the one being Latin, the other a French, version of the word "hurt" or "harm." Moreover it was rather unskilful in a clause defining the word "nuisance," to have the very same word to explain it.
 MR. SPEAKER : The question before the House is, that the House do now adjourn. If, when the rules of the House preclude an hon. Member from speaking on the presentation of a petition, he is to be allowed to move that the House adjourn
 457
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member
 455
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member is not at liberty to make a statement upon presenting a petition, unless there is something in the petition to show there is an urgent need for some immediate remedy. There is nothing in the petition to show this, and the hon. Member is, therefore, debarred from speaking upon the petition.
 MR. SPEAKER : If it has been discocovered that a Member was not present when the question was put, the vote of that Member may be challenged before the numbers are declared, or after the division is over.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. and learned Gentleman must remember that after strangers have been ordered to withdraw all the seats below the gallery are at the disposal of Members of Parliament. If the rule were observed, that no Member was to be allowed in the lobby after the glass was turned, no confusion would arise, because every Member would be in his place within the walls of the House when the question was put.
 MR. SPEAKER : Strictly speaking, when the question is put, every Member ought to be in his place—no Member should be standing upon the floor. It is the duty of the Serjeant-at-arms to clear the lobby of Members, and those Members who do not wish to vote have the liberty of retiring to the room beyond the lobby. All Members who are in the lobby ought to come into the House and vote, but they ought not to be allowed to vote unless they are within the walls of the House—inside the folding doors.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that the present clause was similar to that which was contained in the Bill of 1853, with this difference, that the Amendments introduced by the Government in the present clause rendered it milder and more limited in its form. He was, under these circumstances, surprised to find that hon. Members who had voted in favour of the clause in the Bill of 1853 had changed
 480
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he would now move an Amendment in line 29 limiting the amount of compensation to a sum not exceeding four years of the net rent paid by the tenant for his holding.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that the Government had been perfectly prepared to give explanations as to every Amendment they had to propose, but as the Committee had chosen to go to a division before they had had an opportunity of offering their explanations, the Government surely could not be held responsible on that account. He had been asked to assign his reasons for proposing to limit the claim to compensation. Now, it would be recollected that, on the second reading of the Bill, he distinctly stated the grounds and conditions upon which the Government would take up the measure; and that he then sketched to the House the Amendments which he proposed to insert. The only omission with which the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Serjeant Shee) could tax him was, with not having then stated the period of twenty years as the limit that he would propose. Now, although he certainly had not, on the second reading, defined this specific period, he, nevertheless, then explained generally that he considered there must be such a limit as to time, in regard to the improvements for which the tenant should be entitled to compensation, as would enable them to obtain clear and distinct evidence as to their nature and value. Now, it must fairly be confessed, that the precise limit of twenty years was necessarily in a great degree arbitrary, and that no reason could be given for fixing upon that period more than upon twenty-five or thirty years; but then, if twenty-five years had been chosen, it might as justly have been asked why
 466
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he thought that it was immaterial to retain the words objected to, and he would therefore assent to the Amendment.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he would move that after "time" be inserted the words "within twenty years." The object of the Amendment was to limit the period during which a tenant could demand compensation.
 MR. WINN KNIGHT  said, he begged to move to include the following words—
 "Any premises in such a filthy or unwholesome state as to be a nuisance to, or injurious to the health of, any person; any pool, ditch, gutter, watercourse, cesspool, and drains, or ash-pit so foul as to be a nuisance to, or injurious to the health of, any person; any animal, or any accumulation or deposit (within the limits of any town or street), so kept as to be a nuisance to or injurious to the health of any person."
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY and Colonel GREVILLE  opposed the Amendment.
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, he must complain of the introduction of such a limitation as that which had been just carried upon a division. If a farmhouse happened to have been erected twenty-one years ago, and had been maintained in proper repair by the tenant at a yearly outlay, that man was now not to be allowed a shilling for his improvement, simply because he had had the misfortune to make it twelve months too soon. The real way to get at the compensation to which the tenant was entitled was, in his opinion, to look at the value of the holding at the time the tenant was dispossessed. He considered that the clause now before the Committee was the very essence of the Bill, and he would rather that the Bill should not pass than that the clause should be mutilated. He considered it was most desirable that, if possible, for the future all matters between tenants and landlords should be regulated by contracts; but, with respect to the past, it was a very different thing. The tenants had for a number of years been
 465
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he wished to recall the attention of the Committee to the real question before it. The words "twenty years" were adopted in the 14th Clause almost without discussion; and the real question before the Committee was to leave out the words "any of the classes," and
 472
 MR. M'CANN  said, that it had been decided last year that a Member behind the chair was actually in the House.
 MR. M'CANN  said, the hon. Member had expressed his surprise that hon. Members who supported the clause in 1853 should oppose it now; he would, however, frankly state the reason—it was because in 1853 large meetings were held in Ireland with respect to this question, but that now there were none.
 MR. WILSON  said, that, by paying the labourers regularly, a course which had not been adopted for some time past, the quantity of coal produced had been increased from 30,000 to 60,000 tons, and that the quantity supplied was amply sufficient for the entire consumption of the British and French navies. The royalty paid to the Turkish Government was at the rate of 10 s. s. s. s. s.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he had listened with anxiety to what had fallen from the Secretary for Ireland, in order to ascertain his reason for insisting upon a limitation of twenty years; but the right hon. Gentleman had treated the question sometimes as one of principle, sometimes as one of policy, and he believed that the real ground of the right hon. Gentleman's conduct was official cowardice. The Government were at that moment endeavouring to please Irish Members upon both sides of the House, and the result was, that they were emasculating this measure to such an extent, that even the author of it was obliged to state that it would not satisfy the people of Ireland. The right hon. Gentleman stated that he fixed the particular period of twenty years because he wanted evidence; but was it not easy to obtain evidence to prove who had erected the solid buildings which stood upon a farm? He would appeal to the two Irish law officers who had sat in solemn conclave at Dublin with other Irish Members to consider the question, rather than to the right hon. Gentleman, who knew nothing whatever of Ireland, and whose every step since he had taken office had been a blunder, from one absurdity to another. The Attorney General and the Solicitor General for Ireland had solemnly declared that they would never take office until they were able to obtain a fair and ample measure for the settlement of the question, and he put it to them to say whether the Bill, after the alterations it had undergone, could be regarded as satisfactory? He was of opinion that it would excite an universal feeling of indignation
 471 l.,
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he should move its omission. In his opinion the clause was a wanton violation of principles which even the most despotic Governments held to be sacred; and although the present Bill was confined to Ireland, the principle involved in the present clause was well worthy of the attention of English Members. In opposing the clause he was actuated by the desire of preventing the addition to the Statute Book of an absurdity, resembling too many others by which it was disgraced. In his opinion, no law ought to interfere with private judgment, for if such a principle was once admitted, where would it stop? It might even extend to compelling Irish merchants to take the opinion of Parliament as to the employment of their capital. What could be a greater violation of the principles of justice than, after inviting persons to make a purchase, to come down upon them and compel them to pay an additional sum. The proposal was one which, after all, would be of no great advantage to the tenant, and that he would impress upon hon. Gentlemen for whose precarious support the Government had consented to adopt the present Bill. If a great principle must be violated, let it be done for a great object. (Laughter.) He repeated that opinion, for it was founded upon a maxim of Burke, that, if you murder, rob also; and, if a great principle of justice was to be violated, it should only be done for a great public object. All retrospective legislation, except in cases where persons had unwittingly incurred penalties, was, in his opinion, unjust; but if the present clause were agreed to, the tendency of it would be to prevent the wholesome system of voluntary agreement which was daily being brought more into operation between landlords and tenants in Ireland. It would instil the principle of not depending upon voluntary contract, but upon an Act of the Legislature. Whether he looked to the codes of other nations or to our own law, he could find no precedent for a provision so unjustifiable as that contained in the present clause—a provision which, under the name of law, violated all law; which, professing to be for the benefit of the tenant, would exeite dissension between him and his landlord; which professed to advance the cause of civilisation, but which destroyed the rights of property upon which civilisation itself depended for its advancement.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he wished to know whether it was intended by the Government to institute an inquiry into the conduct of the police in Hyde Park on Sunday last?
 MR. ROEBUCK : I beg to suggest to my hon. Friend (Mr. T. Duncombe) that to-morrow there is a Committee of Supply, and that it will be quite competent to him then to bring forward a Motion on the subject.
 MR. ROEBUCK : I rather think the noble Lord is mistaken. Anything may suggest the Motion that the House adjourn, and the hon. Member may therefore speak of anything which comes uppermost in his mind.
 MR. ROEBUCK : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary says he cannot inquire into vague charges. Now, the charge I brought forward was specific in time, name, place, and circumstance. I do not know what more he would have to form a specific charge. I charged an inspector, who has no number on his coat, and therefore does not come within the category described by the right hon. Gentleman. I described the disturbance, the place, the time—Monday last, the hour 10 o'clock, and the name of the man who was struck. I asked the right hon. Gentleman to give this poor man—poor not in pocket, but I call him so because he has been shamefully used—to give him assistance,
 462
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought it would be best to strike out of the clause the word "offensive," and confine it to such nuisances as were "injurious to health."
 Mr. HENLEY  said, that, nevertheless, the issue of injuriousness to health was clear and intelligible.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the word "nuisance" was well enough if the Bill were to be confined to what concerned other people. It was true that where A complained of B for any "nuisance," the word "nuisance" had a legal meaning. But the Bill gave a power of inspection and prosecution on the ground that something was a supposed "nuisance," not to any one in particular, but to anybody; which might be to nobody at all. Take the case of thirty or forty great hogs; why, they would he charming to an agricultural eye or nose, associated with prospects of rich manure and visions of future corn. But an inspector of fastidious nostrils and high sanitary views might deem the pigs offensive, and insist upon their being summarily suppressed. Let the clause by all means be confined to what was injurious to health.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he thought that the question most to be considered with regard to a clause of this kind was, whether it would meet the cases of the  bonâ fide
 MR. NAPIER  said, he had not the slightest objection to comply with the request of the hon. and learned Gentleman. His reasons for the opinion to which the hon. and learned Gentleman referred were the same as those which influenced the Select Committee in recommending—and it would be found in the latter part of the Bill—that where compensation was made with regard to improvements on the soil, there should be no limitation of time. He thought before, and he still thought, that the two parts of the Bill should be
 469
 MR. MALINS  said, he thought that within the four walls of the House should be presumed to be "within the House," and not the lobbies.
 MR. MALINS  said, he wished to call the attention of the Chairman to the fact that three hon. Members who had voted in the majority were not in the House when the question was put. ( Cries of
 MR. MALINS  said, the fact was as his hon. Friend had stated.
 MR. MALINS  said, he would refer to the process of "counting the House," in which the Speaker only noticed those Members who were within the doors of the House itself.
 MR. MALINS  said, he would withdraw his former Motion, and move that the Chairman report progress and ask leave to sit again forthwith, in order that Mr. Speaker might take the Chair and explain the rule to the House.
 MR. MALINS  said, that under those circumstances, he would not persist in his Motion.
 MR. MALINS  said, that the Attorney General and Solicitor General were in the same predicament.
 MR. MALINS  said, he should move that the vote of the right hon. Gentleman be struck off.
 MR. MALINS  said, he still retained the opinion that the clause was opposed to all the rights of property, and was fraught with dangers of every kind. It was said that there was a distinction between the case of the landlords and tenants in Ireland, and the case of landlords and tenants in England; but he could understand no such distinction. The laws of the two countries were the same, and the two classes had in each case to appeal to the same tribunals. By the law, as it at present stood, the owners of property were only bound by certain written contracts, and on the faith of that law English capital to a large amount had recently been invested in the purchase of land in Ireland [Cries of "No, no!"] He believed that those gentlemen who cried "No, no!" must he very oblivious of what had of late years taken place in the Irish Encumbered Estates Court. But it made no difference in his argument whether the capital recently invested in the purchase of land in
 479
 MR. MALINS  said, the course he had taken had at any rate had the effect of causing rules to be laid down for the guidance of the House in such distinct terms that it would be impossible for any Member, henceforth, to mistake them, and he was sure every hon. Member felt obliged to Mr. Speaker for the decisions he had given.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he could confirm the statement of the noble Lord. He had that moment left Mr. Speaker, who informed the Gentlemen who had waited upon him in consequence of the present discussion, that the vote, if an improper one, might be struck off even on the following day.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he rose to order. He considered it very inconvenient to get into a discussion upon petitions of this nature just presented without notice to the House. The exception which was provided for by the rules of the House for discussing petitions referred to cases only of petitions which required immediate and urgent remedy; they were the only cases which, could be discussed on presentation. He really did not see how the matter of which the petitioners complained showed an urgent necessity for providing an immediate remedy. He thought it would be better to give notice, and bring the matter before the House to-morrow.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he did not believe it would be better to take the course recommended by the right hon. Gentleman, or that there could be anything more requiring redress than the personal grievances of which these parties complained.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE : Then I had better move that the House do now adjourn; and I shall move it if the House will not hear me, for that will be a very good reason for adjourning. I did intend to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the illegal and ferocious conduct of the metropolitan police, and to report their opinion to the House. I am going to support these petitions satisfactorily by evidence, and I
 456
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE : The right hon. Gentleman in the Chair says the courts of justice are open to these parties; but I say they are not open to them, and so they come here. [ Cries of
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he would give the Government an opportunity of answering the question of the hon. and learned Member for Leominster (Mr. J. G. Phillimore), as he was about to present some petitions which prayed for immediate redress; and, by the rules of the House, petitions which required immediate redress were to be taken into consideration at the time. The first petition was from inhabitants of Mount Street and Park Street, Grosvenor Square, who expressed their horror and disgust at the brutal and violent conduct of the police in truncheoning the peaceably disposed persons who were attracted to Hyde Park on Sunday from motives of curiosity, or who assembled there to take their ordinary walk in the park. The petitioners prayed the House to grant an inquiry into the conduct of the police, and to protect the public against a repetition of such frightful violence. He had also to present a petition from Francis Henry Mare, of Southampton Street, Strand, who stated that, being in bad health and afflicted with paralysis, he was in the habit of walking in Hyde Park on; Sunday, and that, being there on Sunday last, and standing by the rails opposite to Albert Gate, he received several violent blows from the staves of the police. He never struck a single policeman, but only held up his stick to ward off their blows, He was nevertheless carried off to Vine Street station, where he was confined all night in a filthy and ill-ventilated hole. Two respectable householders offered to become bail for him on Sunday afternoon, but the police refused to accept bail. The petitioner, therefore, prayed that a searching investigation should be made into the
 454
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  again rose, and was met with cries of "Spoke." I should have done before now—I should have finished this statement—if I had not been interrupted. I have only to say, I am here to discharge a public duty. As to breaking down the authorities of the House, I do not wish anything of the sort. I still believe I am within the rules of the House. I am requested, for the sake of my fellow-subjects, for the sake of property, and for the sake of the peace and tranquillity of this town on Sunday next, to make this statement to the House, and it will then be for the Home Office—which denies all these statements—which says that the police behaved most exemplarily, to see that security is given to the peaceful inhabitants of London. If the House is satisfied that all the statements in the petitions are true, I need not read evidence in corroboration of them, but, as they are doubted by the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, I must repeat that, should this Committee be appointed, I can bring evidence in support of all these allegations, not by a set of pickpockets, as they are represented, but by many peaceful subjects of Her Majesty, resident in the most respectable part of the west end of the town. There is another case, of a man standing talking to some neighbours, when without the slightest intimation from the police, he received a blow from the clinched fist of a policeman behind the ear, and on his turning round, another policeman gave him a similar blow on the other side, under the ear, and, on his retreating towards his home in Mount Street, he saw a policeman strike a person down with his truncheon, and, while the poor fellow was lying insensible
 458 459 "I beg to inform you that I was present both Sundays, and never in the whole course of my life witnessed greater brutality displayed by a body of ruffians and cowards than by the police in Hyde Park on Sunday, the 1st of July last, and I shall have great pleasure (if you will afford me the opportunity) to detail some of the scenes I witnessed; and still greater pleasure if, by such information, these savages (for I cannot call them men) may be brought to justice." 460
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE : I rise to order. I have not yet moved for any Committee.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE : Sir, my answer is, this matter requires immediate inquiry, and I think, when the rule of the House was framed, an opening was left expressly for cases of this kind. I maintain our time has not been wasted by the observations I have made, or by the petitions I have presented. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State says my accusations are general and sweeping in their character. They are no more vague than the statement made by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck). I have given you a petition with the names and addresses of persons residing in Mount Street and the neighbourhood of Grosvenor Square, and, if an opportunity is given, I have no doubt of, being able to prove the statements they have made.
 MR. T. KENNEDY  said, the great difficulty in the clause was the endeavour to legislate upon the same system for the past as for the future. There had been very great improvements made by tenants under his own eyes, without any expenditure on the part of the landlords; but if the principle of the clause were to be applied to the past, it would do the greatest injustice to those who had made those improvements. No doubt, an honest landlord would give his tenants compensation for such improvements at present; but in a few years that desire would he forgotten,
 470
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, it was open to the Committee to decide how the principle of twenty years should be applied; whether to roads and fences, or whether to farm buildings? They had decided upon the term of twenty years, but not as to the class of improvements to which that term should apply. With respect to the retrospective principle, the onus of proof was to rest with the tenant; if he could bring no proof, of course he could make out no case of compensation. In the Bill, a large number of proofs were required to be made out, some of which were of an almost impossible character. He thought, if the retrospective principle was to be admitted at all, there should be no limits placed on it.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he would beg to remind the House that they had been engaged upon what might fairly be called an English "row." He did not say that they were not entitled to indulge in a "row," and it was not the character of his countrymen to wish to stop it, but he must call their attention to the fact that Englishmen were quite as ready to get up a "row" as his countrymen were. He would only add that he was in the park, and could give some evidence, but would abstain from doing so at present.
 MR. BARROW  said, at common law a party had the benefit of trial by jury.
 MR. BARROW  said, he quite agreed that in a Bill giving summary powers, there ought to be no power of prosecution without medical proof that there was injury to health.
 MR. W. EWART  said, he wished to inquire of the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Treasury whether any further information could be laid before the House respecting the nature, supply, and cost of coal produced at Heraclia and other places on the south coast of the Black Sea?
 MR. MONSELL  replied, that it was not intended to keep up the Ordnance school permanently, but it was intended to keep it up for time sufficient to enable the education of the boys now in the school to be completed.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he felt he should not be doing justice to his constituents, who had sent him to that House to defend their property, if he did not support the clause. He believed that the Bill without the clause would be worse than useless. He thought that there were two points to be considered—first, whether it was just that the tenant should have the benefit of improvements made with his own capital, or by his own labour; and, secondly, if just that he should, ought he to be debarred from that benefit—and he used the word "debarred" advisedly—because he was a poor man? With regard to the first point there was no difference of opinion, nor could much exist with regard to the second. If a Bill were passed saying that for all improvements made after the year 1855 the tenant should be allowed compensation it would be equivalent to giving to landlords all improvements which had been made by tenants before that year, and would, in point of fact, be a mere act of confiscation. How could they expect the tenants of Ireland to he well affected towards the Government of this country if they did not fulfil one of the primary duties of a Government towards them? He hoped the Committee would decide in this case upon considerations of equity and justice, and that they would not be influenced by any rhetoric whatever to disregard the claim of the tenants to compensation for their own property.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, it was his belief that the noble Lord at the head of the Government would not surely go on with the Bill now. A farce was a very good thing now and then, but such an utter farce as proceeding with the Bill after the last division would ho discreditable to the Government of the noble Lord. He had considerable doubts whether the noble Lord ever meant to pass the Bill in any shape, because, remembering that the noble Lord, when Home Secretary, assented to a really good Bill, he could not understand how the noble Lord could be sincere then, and likewise sincere now. He therefore entreated the noble Lord not to pass the Bill in its present shape, after the very little good which the noble Lord was willing to leave in it had been taken out. It had been stated by the Solicitor General for Ireland that his motive for mutilating the Bill was, because it would have no chance of passing in another place without such mutilations. That was the hon. and learned Gentleman's reason for voting in direct opposition to the course he took last year. Now, he (Mr. Serjeant Shee) had no such distrust of the House of Lords. He had never known an instance of any reform, political, commercial, or financial, which the House of Lords had not been willing to entertain, and, finally, if it were a real improvement on the existing law, to adopt; and he had not the slightest doubt that, if the Bill had been properly submitted to the House of Lords by Lord Aberdeen's Government, it would have obtained a better position than it had obtained in the House of Commons during the present year. But he firmly believed that no honest attempt was made to pass it. He trusted the noble Lord would do the people of Ireland the justice not to mock them with a Bill which could be of no possible utility to anybody in that country.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, he also opposed the Amendment, because, taking in connection with the alterations which had been already made in the Bill, its effect would be to deprive the tenants of all compensation whatever.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE : The noble Lord, Sir, has put a question to me which I shall answer. The noble Lord wants to know whether I wish to keep this question unsettled, so that I may be enabled to stand on the hustings as the champion of the Irish tenantry. I am astonished that the noble Lord, considering his own conduct on this measure, should have the presumption to make a charge of that kind against me. I brought in a Bill last year, at the instigation of the majority of the representatives of Ireland, which was referred to a Select Committee, and considered by them with great care. They brought in a Report, and afterwards the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and a Member of the Government who acted under him, brought down a Bill to this House. The noble Lord, in his heart, disapproved the Bill. He did not go upon the hustings, for he kept his place, and
 485
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, he wished to move the omission, after line 25, of certain words which provided that, in giving the tenant compensation for improvements, due regard should be had to the length of time during which he might have enjoyed such improvements.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, he thought that the Government had not dealt fairly with him in the course they had taken. He had introduced the Bill, which was the very identical measure (with the exception of a few words) that the late Government had passed through that House. Its principles received the assent of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Horsman), of the Solicitor General for England, and of the noble Lord the Prime Minister; and he (Mr. Serjeant Shee) was invited on the second reading to allow the Government to take charge of the measure. [Mr. HORSMAN was here understood to dissent.] He (Mr. Serjeant Shee) was only now speaking of what took place publicly in that House. To induce him to give up the Bill to the Government, the Secretary for Ireland sketched the Amendments which he deemed necessary, the most important one of which referred to retrospective compensation. It was absurd to think that he would have consented to allow the Government to take charge of the Bill if he had had the least idea that they intended thus to limit the compensation to houses built within the last twenty years; and he had great cause to complain of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and the
 467 468
 MR. WILKINSON  said, that those latter words were by no means unsusceptible of doubt; for many people whose trades were dreadfully offensive, maintained that they were perfectly healthful.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS : I am not surprised at the course pursued by the Government. ["Order!"] I am speaking to the Motion. I say the noble Lord the Prime Minister is entirely out of order in his interruption of the course pursued by the hon. Member for Finsbury. I maintain, Sir, not in opposition to authority, that the grounds he has laid before the House perfectly justify the course which he is pursuing in calling immediate attention to this subject. I, too, have received numerous communications from persons who complain of the most atrocious conduct of the police.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS : I will not for a moment, Sir, say a single word against your authority, entertaining as the House does, and deservedly so, the highest respect for your opinion; but I believe, only a few nights ago, the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex (Lord R. Grosvenor) brought a question before the House, and he was prevented addressing the House precisely in the same manner as the hon. Member for Finsbury. The noble Lord said he would move the adjournment of the House, and was allowed to proceed.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he did not object, except to the words in parentheses.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he would cite a passage from the medical evidence to support the observation of the noble Lord. One medical man asserted that bone-boilers' yards or horse-knackers' yards were not prejudicial to health. He proposed to strike out the word "offensive," and retain the words "nuisance, or injurious to health."
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, either the word "offensive," or the word "nuisance," must be introduced.
 MR. GROGAN  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Malins) called attention to the fact before the Chairman announced the numbers.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was willing to admit he was not in the House, and that his vote should be struck off, but hoped it would be understood that in future no Member could vote unless he was actually in the House when the question was put.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was willing to allow his vote to be struck off, if it could be done without deciding hastily upon the question which had been raised. He did not dispute that a Member in order to vote, must be within the folding doors of the House; but he thought, before laying down a general rule, it would be better to take Mr. Speaker's opinion. He (Sir G. Grey) had been of opinion that any Member who was within the precincts of the House was entitled to vote.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he hardly knew what was to be understood as being within the House. He was in the lobby immediately adjoining the House when the doors were opened, and if that was not within the House he was quite willing that his vote should be struck off.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had heard the Chairman putting the question, but, as he happened to be in conversation with the Solicitor General at the time, if he were called upon to state what the question was he could not say.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he should of course submit willingly to the right hon. Gentleman's decision, and his vote would not be allowed in the division, but he thought it was desirable to call the attention of the House to the consequences of that decision, so that the question might not be again raised when its settlement might have an effect upon an important division. The folding doors at the back of the Chair, and also at the front of the Chair, at the other end of the House, were always open. The question was always put immediately on the outer door being shut by the Serjeant-at-arms after the Members coming from the lobby had entered it, and the folding doors at the end of the House being kept open, it was almost impossible, when there was a full House, for Members who had just entered from the lobby to get beyond them. The consequence was, that
 487
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought that there ought to be no prosecution without medical evidence.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, as the adjournment of the House is the only question before us, I need not enter now into a discussion of the conduct of the police on Sunday last, nor upon the sweeping allegations made by the hon. Gentleman as to that conduct. I wish, however, to correct one misrepresentation which my hon. Friend made when he said I denied all those statements. I could not deny them, for the statements which he has now made I have heard for the first time. The hon. Gentleman said he thought it his duty to acquaint me with those statements, and I only wish he had laid those statements before me. I would then have instituted an inquiry, which at present, of course, I have not been able to do. The allegations which have been made are of a sweeping and general character. The House is aware that every policeman has the letter of his division embroidered on his dress, and has also a distinctive number by which he may be identified, the object of those marks being, in the event of misconduct on the part of any individual policeman, that he
 461
 SIR GEORGE GREY : The observation I made use of had no reference to the statement of the hon. and learned Gentleman, who, I admit, was specific enough, but to the statements of the hon. Member for Finsbury. [Mr. DUNCOMBE: I gave the names.] As to the petition presented by the hon. and learned Gentleman, if he had sent me that statement the matter would by this time have been in course of inquiry. I am not now in possession of all the facts of that case. I heard the statement made by the hon. and learned Gentleman on presenting that petition, and I must request him to send me a statement in writing or a copy of the petition, otherwise it will be impossible for me to act.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was not aware that any special inquiry was called for into the conduct of the police. He had received several communications from gentlemen, from which it appeared that the conduct of the police was open to no great exception, and that they acted with forbearance and moderation. A specific complaint had appeared in a public paper, signed, very properly, by the person complaining, who gave his own address and the number and letter of the policeman. In that case, as in every other in which anything tangible and specific had been stated, an inquiry had been ordered, the result of which he had not ascertained. If that letter had been addressed to him in the first instance, a day or two would have been saved in the inquiry.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY : I would suggest to the hon. Gentleman (Mr. T. Duncombe) that, having presented a petition of gravity, why not move that it be printed? and he can then found upon it such Motion as he pleases.
 MR. CAIRNS  said, it was his intention to support the clause, and he wished to state his reasons for doing so. The Committee should remember that that House passed a Bill in 1853, containing a wider clause than the one under discussion; and in the same year the other House, which was said to have a greater respect for the rights of property, carried a general Landlord and Tenant Bill, comprising a retrospective fixture clause, providing that any house built or other improvement made twenty-one years before the passing of the Bill might, at the expiration of the lease, be wholly removed by the tenant, unless the landlord paid him for it according to a valuation. Therefore, when the present clause was denounced as a violation of property and of the principles of justice, it should be borne in mind that the same character would equally attach to provisions which had already obtained the deliberate sanction of both branches of the Legislature. The argument of the injustice which the clause would do to purchasers of estates in the Encumbered Estates Court had weighed much with him; but, on mature consideration, he had come to the conclusion that it was not an argument which ought to prevail in opposition to the clause. The proviso was certainly objectionable, and he was of opinion that it ought to be amended as suggested by the hon. and learned Member
 482
 MR. CAIRNS  said, he agreed with the
 473
 MR. STIRLING  said, he begged to inquire whether the Ordnance school at Carshalton was to be maintained, and if so, whether more pupils were to be admitted, and whether the school was to be placed under the superintendence of the Horse Guards or the War Office; and, in the event of the school being discontinued, what course was to be taken with regard to the pupils now in the establishment?
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON : Sir, as the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Roebuck) has alluded so pointedly to the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex (Lord R. Grosvenor) and to myself, I beg to say it was not through bigotry that I supported the Bill in question. I beg to say I was one of, unhappily, a small minority who voted in favour of opening the British Museum and the National Gallery on Sundays to those who believed conscientiously they could go there. I voted for the Sunday Trading Bill, not through bigotry, but at the request of a great number of tradesmen in humble circumstances, in order to secure for as many persons as possible in the metropolis, without entailing undue inconvenience upon any one, the Sunday as a day of rest, to be kept holy by those who recognised that course as a duty—to be kept as a holiday and day of recreation by those who felt inclined to do so. I beg to say, further, that since the Bill has been, withdrawn I have received representations from working men and humble tradesmen thanking us for our endeavours, and complaining of the utter misrepresentations to which the measure has been exposed, and
 463
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he doubted if the word "nuisance" would not be limited by the words "injurious to health." Surely anything injurious to health was now a nuisance; but a nuisance might be with out any injury to health.
 VISCOUNT GODERICH  said, if the word "offensive" were left out, it would be necessary to bring medical evidence in every case to support a prosecution, in order to show that the nuisance was injurious to health.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I understood that the statement of the hon. Gentleman appeared to show [Mr. T. DUNCOMBE: You have not heard my case yet] that which puts the petitions out of order, because, if I understand him, he proposes to refer the matter to a Select Committee of this House. But is that the immediate remedy which the hon. Member proposes to himself by the presentation of these petitions? Suppose a Committee appointed to-morrow, and suppose it reported this day week, that would not be an immediate remedy—
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I rise to order. I will put it to you, whether it is not in accordance with the rules of the House that, when a Member makes a Motion, he should speak to that Motion? The Motion made is, that the House do now adjourn, and the hon. Gentleman is arguing, not for the adjournment of the House, but for the appointment of a Committee, which would be impossible if the House were to adjourn.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he accepted the solution of the right hon. Gentleman to the second question. The only question which remained was, whether the spot in which his right hon. Friend was when the question was put was within the House or not?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he thought it probable that, if the hon. and learned Member would wait a little time, the question would be satisfactorily settled.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that he understood the opinion of Mr. Speaker was that the Committee should proceed, and that when the Chairman left the Chair he should report the circumstance to him, and he would then state the rule.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he apprehended there were two points—first, whether his right hon. Friend (Sir G. Grey) was within the House when the question was put; and, next, whether a Member who was within the House when the question was put must necessarily have heard the question which was put?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that the important points were—first, what were the rules of the House; and, next, had those rules been departed from? He thought it was unadvisable to carry to a conclusion the debate which had arisen, and would suggest that it would be better by common consent to refer the matter with reference to future proceedings to that high authority to whose decisions they were accustomed to yield.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I must say, Sir, the course pursued by the hon. and learned Gentleman is somewhat extraordinary and eccentric. The hon. and learned Gentleman brings a Bill into this House. He then earnestly entreats me to take charge of his own offspring, promising every support to carry it through the House; and in every stage of the Bill, from that moment to this, the hon. and learned Gentleman has opposed everything
 484
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I shall be guilty of the presumption of attacking the conduct of the hon. and learned Gentleman whenever I think proper. There are few Members who are more open to change than the hon. and learned Gentleman has shown himself to be. As to the course which I took last year with respect to the Bill to which he alludes, it was perfectly plain and undisguised. I said in the Committee that I disapproved, on principle, the foundation on which the Bill rested. I repeated that statement in my place in this House, and observed that, disapproving in the abstract the principle on which a part of the Bill was founded. I nevertheless thought that, in the existing condition of Ireland, some concession of principle should be made—that there were circumstances connected with the tenantry of Ireland that rendered it necessary to make some sacrifice of abstract principle,
 486
 MR. PERCY  asked the Secretary of the Ordnance whether it was true that a circular was sent in February last by Sir Hew Ross to the head masters of some of the principal schools, inviting them to send up the names of some of their pupils for the Royal Engineers or Artillery, and promising that thirty commissions should be distributed among them? Whether the names of forty pupils were not sent up accordingly, on the faith of that promise; and whether, notwithstanding that promise, the forty pupils so sent up from schools are to be subjected to competition with the 300 or 400 persons from seventeen to twenty-one years of age, who by open competitive examination, are to be selected according to the arrangement contained in the advertisement dated the 11th day of June, 1855, and signed by the Secretary of the Ordnance?
 COLONEL DUNNE  asked whether those persons so selected, and especially those selected by patronage, were to be subjected to as severe an examination as was ordinarily required at Woolwich?
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, in 1854 the Native officers in the Guzerat army volunteered to take part against Persia, when a war between that country and England seemed to impend; but no such war having taken place, they subsequently offered their services in the Crimea. There was also an offer of service from the Bengal Irregular Cavalry. No offers had been made from the Nizam's Irregular Cavalry; but the offers which had been made from the four regiments of Bengal Irregular Cavalry amounted to 2,000 men. The
 519
 MR. BENTINCK : I agree with what I believe to be the general feeling of the House, that it is extremely undesirable that we should proceed to offer statements and counter statements upon a question which has not yet been investigated. I cannot help saying, however, that nothing, in my opinion, could be more unfortunate than the course which has been taken by my hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury. He professes the greatest anxiety that there should be no disturbance or breach of the peace in consequence of any ill feeling on account of what has taken place; but I think that it would have been very difficult for my hon. Friend to concoct a speech which should be more calculated to inflame the passions and to excite the irritable feelings of people out of doors than the speech which he has delivered this evening. My hon. Friend first tells the people that they have been brutally ill-treated by the police; and then he informs them that they need expect no satisfaction from the Home Office. After the statement of the Secretary of State for the Home Department, that he will afford the fullest inquiry into the subject, I am sure there is no man in the House who doubts for a moment that the inquiry is intended to be full and ample. If, after this discussion, there should be a disturbance next Sunday, in consequence of what occurred last Sunday and of what has taken place in the House to-day, I am bound to say that I think that disturbance will be attributable, not to the conduct of the Secretary of State for the Home Department, but to the very ill-advised remarks which have been made to-night by my hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury.
 COLONEL LINDSAY  said, that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Finsbury had alluded to the conduct of some commissioned officer or non-commissioned officer; the fact was, that at the Magazine barracks in Hyde Park there was no accommodation for an officer, and no officer resided there. It was at all times under the command of a sergeant. With regard to
 527
 MR. HEADLAM  was anxious to say a few words before the noble Lord offered an explanation. He was willing to accept the arrangement of the Government, as a concession in the right direction, but he was far from thinking that it went far enough. He thought, however, that both the House and the army had reason to complain of the delay on the part of the Government in submitting their proposal. It should be recollected that he (Mr. Headlam) had
 537
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that as far as he was concerned, he had no objection to the production of the papers. The case was this. An accident had occurred, as the hon. and gallant Member had stated. The case was brought before some magistrates, and they dismissed it. He (Viscount Palmerston) was not satisfied with the grounds upon which the magistrates had so dismissed that case, and he had expressed his opinion in writing to them accordingly. Thereupon ensued a correspondence; and after he quitted the Home Office he had an interview with some of those magistrates, of whom he was bound to say, in the first place, that they were men of the highest respectability, and that he did not at all concur with the hon. and gallant officer in thinking that the circumstance of their being millowners or the employers of workmen had at all influenced them in performing their duty as magistrates. In that particular case he thought they had taken a partial view of the matter; but upon representation made verbally, and by official communications addressed to his right hon. Friend who was now at the Home Office, he believed they had satisfied his right hon. Friend that he (Viscount Palmerston) had been mistaken in his view of the law of the case, that they were borne out strictly by the law in dismissing the case as it was brought before them, and that, therefore, no imputation of any kind could possibly rest upon them in consequence of their having dismissed that particular case. With regard to the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member, though as far as he was concerned he might not, after a time, have any objection to the production of the papers—for he believed their production would be rather to the credit of the magistrates than calculated to throw any imputation upon them—yet, considering the manner in which the Motion came before the House, and that the granting of it would supersede the Committee of Supply, he felt it to be his duty to oppose the Motion, and meet this particular request with a negative.
 MR. W. J. FOX  denied that the magistrates to whom the hon. and gallant Member referred had acted with injustice or had violated the law. The hon. and gallant Member said that some of them had been convicted themselves; but why? Simply for the purpose of making out a case upon which to get the decision of a superior court of law. It was impossible to guard people under all circumstances against the consequences of their own folly or ignorance in obtruding themselves where they had no business; and in this case it happened that the man whose life was unfortunately lost had no occasion whatever to meddle with the strap by which he was caught. It was not his duty. He had not been requested by any one to do it; it was in charge of another man; and the millowners were no more responsible for the accident which ensued than were the shareholders of a railway for the death of a man who had the folly to jump off a platform at the moment a train was passing at full speed along the line. On these grounds it was that the magistrates dismissed the case. In their decision they were perfectly unanimous; and the allegation of interest could not be urged with much reason against two, nor with any reason against the other, of them; for if reference were made to the Reports of the Inspectors, it would be seen that these very men had in many instances dealt severely with offences that had been committed by their own class. He had only further to observe on behalf of the magistrates, that they had not objected, and did not now object, to the production of the correspondence; they had only demurred to its production at a moment when it was incomplete.
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, that on account of the rapid movements of machinery in factories, there must sometimes be accidents; but in many cases they were attributable to the extreme foolhardiness of the sufferers themselves. In the present day, there was much too great a disposition evinced to interfere with the occupations of the people; and as to those magistrates, he believed they were as honest a set of men in adjudicating the cases that came before them as any squires or other body of men in the country. Whenever cases in which they were personally interested came before them, they at once absented themselves from the bench. He believed, too, that their decisions were correct, and in one instance he knew that it had been
 549
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the objection formerly urged against the production of the papers could not now be raised; but at the same time he thought that their production; would only tend to revive questions which were now set at rest. At the same time, if the magistrates asked for them for their own justification, he should have no objection to produce them, together with the legal opinion which had been taken. With regard to the proper protection of machinery, he thought that there was no great difficulty in the matter. It all depended upon the construction put upon the word "fencing." If it were supposed that the Act required a solid casing round the shafts, extending sometimes to a mile in length, if the whole measurement were taken, it would subject the millowners to a ruinous expense; and by a recent decision of Mr. Justice Creswell it had been held that the Act was sufficiently complied with where it was proved that proper precautions, such as a reasonable man ought to take against accidents, had been adopted.
 MR. MAGUIRE  gave full credit to the hon. and gallant Member for the motives which actuated him in bringing forward this question. His object was not to criminate these magistrates; but he (Mr. Maguire) defied any gentleman to take up and read one of the reports of the Inspectors without feeling extreme horror at the contents, and admitting that there were most powerful reasons for the executive Government putting forth all its strength for the protection of the workpeople from accidents which must be ever occurring as long as the law was not enforced. Mr. Hollings, one of the Inspectors of Factories, plainly stated that "no caution or
 550
 MR. COWAN  begged to bear testimony to the fact that a very large proportion of these accidents were occasioned by the recklessness and foolhardiness of the persons employed, but still he thought that the law should compel the millowners to do their duty by providing sufficient protection. There were some persona who were very careless of the lives of their workmen. For instance, he recollected once going over a mill, and pointing out that the machinery was very dangerous, when, the owner said, in a most unfeeling manner—"Oh! there are plenty of other people to be got." It was necessary that some stringent regulations should be adopted on this subject, and he hoped that the task would be undertaken by the Government.
 MR. CHEETHAM  believed it would be found that the magistrates had conducted themselves on the occasion referred to with justice and propriety. Exaggerated statements had been made as to the number of accidents resulting from unfenced machinery. No class of employers, in his opinion, conducted their business with greater regard to the interests of those they employed; but it was a moot question whether the fencing of shafts above a certain height would have the effect of preventing accidents, and the evidence given before the magistrates tended rather to prove that it would, in some cases, only increase the danger.
 MR. W. BROWN  thought that the production of the correspondence would vindicate the conduct of the magistrates.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, if the present law were bad it ought to be repealed, but it ought not to be violated; and if the statement of the Inspector were true, that two men in the prime of life had lost their lives, within six weeks, in one district through the neglect of the owners to obey a clear law, some alteration was required.
 SIR G. GREY  had not the slightest objection to produce the papers, but he hoped the hon. and gallant Gentleman would not press the Motion to a division, so as to prevent the House going into Committee of Supply.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I am very glad the right hon. Gentleman has brought forward his imputations upon the conduct of the Government at a time when those imputations can be conveniently answered. I certainly was surprised when, the other day, upon an occasion which I should have thought would have induced the right hon. Gentleman to refrain from bringing before the House any question that could occasion controversy, he introduced a topic of this nature and made serious personal charges against the Government. Were it not for the remark of Mr. Grattan, that persons very often made observations "tempted by the extreme impropriety of the occasion," I should hardly have thought the right hon. Gentleman would have taken such an opportunity. As, however, the right hon. Gentleman has brought forward the subject now upon going into Committee of Supply, I cannot but own that he is fully entitled to explanation, and that the correspondence which has taken place with the Austrian Government on this great question fitly deserves, and should obtain the attention of Parliament. Before I enter into this question, I must refer to the right hon. Gentleman's affirmation, that we have been disappointed in all our predictions, and that the objects of the war are such as he has been pleased to describe. Now, so far from being disappointed as to the events of the war, I will say that, although the siege of Sebastopol has not hitherto been attended with the success we promised ourselves, yet that the repulse of Russia at the siege of Silistria, the evacuation of the Danubian provinces, and the consent of Russia to abandon entirely and for ever all those special treaties which gave her the pretence for interfering with Turkey—all these circumstances are successes far beyond those which we had hoped to accomplish in so short a time. But then the right hon. Gentleman says, we believed that Cronstadt would fall immediately, and he founds this assertion upon a statement made by the First Lord of the Admiralty, on a
 560 561 562 563 ultimatum 564 565 566 567 568 ultimatum casus belli. 569 570 ultimatum. 571 572 573
 MR. COBDEN : I have heard many speeches in this House which have astonished me, but I must say, unfeignedly, I have never heard a speech which struck me with such astonishment and grief as that which has just been delivered by the noble Lord. My right hon. Friend (Mr. Gibson), in the proper exercise of his duty as a representative of the people, calls upon the noble Lord to explain the inconsistency between his conduct at Vienna and his conduct in this House. My right hon. Friend points out that it has come to his knowledge, not from the statement of the noble Lord here when he had returned from Vienna, but by the publication of an official Austrian document, that the noble Lord, when at Vienna, did confidentially—for that is the word of Count Buol—did confidentially promise the Austrian Minister that when he returned to England he would do his best to induce the Government to assent to the propositions for the establishment of peace which had emanated from the Austrian Government, and which the noble Lord had also privately informed Count Buol that he approved. The noble Lord does not deny that statement. But the first and obvious question which we ask ourselves is this—Why was not the noble Lord himself the first to come and inform us in this House that the terms
 574 575 576 577 578 casus belli; 579 580 "My Government will propose to you to vote the Annual Recruitment Bill; there will be no extraordinary levy, and the Bill will take the usual course necessary for the regularity of the administration of a Recruitment Bill." 581 582
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I can very easily understand that the hon. Member for the West Riding, with his peculiar views, wishing to form a party that might place itself in a position to administer the affairs of the country, and I make it no matter of reproach or blame to him, and those who agree with him, that they should endeavour to do all they possibly can to realize the assertion—which I utterly deny to be founded in fact—that other public men in this country have lost the confidence of the nation. It is very natural for the hon. Gentleman to say that there are no men here to whom the country would look up and around whom it would rally at periods when it might be necessary for the public weal that there should be persons in whom it should repose its confidence. But I deny, Sir, that that is the fact. Setting aside all party feeling, I assert that on both sides of this House
 583 584 585 586 587
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I beg the noble Lord's pardon—I certainly remember hearing the noble Lord distinctly say, with reference to Poland, that the position of that country was a standing menace to Germany.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : No doubt I did say that the position of Poland was a standing menace to Germany; but did the right hon. Gentleman ever hear me say that England and France were going on a crusade to expel the Russians from Poland? When I made the statement to which the right hon. Gentleman refers, I accompanied it with another, which he might just as well have recollected, to the effect that it was by the German Powers—Austria and Prussia—alone that that position could be altered; and that it was by them alone that Poland could be wrested from the dominion of Russia. I stated distinctly that it was impossible for England and France to undertake such a work, but that whenever Austria and Prussia should feel themselves called upon to take up arms in this quarrel, they would find that the position of Poland was the one against which they would have in the first place to guard themselves. As to the independence of Hungary, when did the right hon. Gentleman ever hear me say that one of the objects of the war was to sever Hungary from the Austrian empire? Every word I have ever uttered with regard to Hungary has been quite in a contrary sense. I have stated, on the contrary, that I should consider it a calamity to Europe if the separation of Hungary from Austria were to destroy the Austrian
 588 589 590
 MR. ROEBUCK : It appears to me, Sir, that the subject before the House resolves itself into two very simple questions; the one being the conduct of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, and the other the wisdom or folly of having entered into the present war. I propose offering a few observations upon these two subjects, treating them separately and distinctly. On the first I agree with the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden), and on the other, with the noble Lord at the head of the Government. Now, first, with regard to the conduct of the noble Lord. The noble Lord at the head of the Government has stated that in a Government formed of several men agreeing in their general principles, there must exist some differences of opinion as to separate questions, and that, therefore, it is essential for carrying on the business of Government that there should be a certain compromise of opinion. Well, Sir, with that
 591 592 593 594
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  observed, that nothing could be more unsatisfactory than the speech of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and it was a most significant fact that, notwithstanding all the aid of personal talent and influence of position, he had failed to elicit a single cheer. Every one must be aware that the state of our policy and our position abroad was anything but satisfactory, and yet what reply did the noble Lord give to the question so properly put by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester? He told the House that it was monstrous
 595 596
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, although I wish to make a few observations before this debate closes, I shall most scrupulously avoid, on this occasion and at this late hour of the evening, entering into any discussion as to the conduct of the war. This evening is memorable, and will long be memorable, in, the history of this country, for the revelations and for the confessions on the part of a Minister of State holding a very high and peculiar position—confessions and revelations which, probably, have not been before equalled in the memory of any man living. What have we heard to-night so unexpectedly, and which, if I am not mistaken, is destined to impress itself So seriously and painfully on the minds and opinions of this nation? We have had to-night an admission from the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Colonies, who was recently employed by his Sovereign in the high position of Minister Plenipotentiary to negotiate on a subject of no less moment than that of peace or war, that, after having given, as he has admitted, great care and anxiety to the prosecution of his labours, he arrived at a favourable solution
 597 598 599 600 601 602 603 604
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, it was not my intention to take any part in this discussion, but I cannot refrain from making a few observations in consequence of the erroneous construction which has been placed by the right hon. Gentleman on the statement of my noble Friend. He began by stating that my noble Friend, having gone to Vienna as the Plenipotentiary of this country, to negotiate an honourable peace, left Vienna, having accomplished, in his opinion, the object for which he went there, and having brought
 605 606
 VISCOUNT GODERICH  wished to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, in consequence of what had just fallen from the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, for he conceived there was on one point a great difference between what had fallen from him and what had been stated by the
 607 ultimatum, casus belli.
 SIR G. GREY  wished to correct the representation made by the noble Lord of what he had said. He did not say the reason why the Cabinet rejected the proposition was that Austria held out no hopes that she would become a belligerent Power in the event of its being refused by Russia. What he said was this, that one important consideration in his own mind, and no doubt that of others, with respect to the proposal was, that Austria gave no certain expectation that it would be accepted.
 MR. STAFFORD  also wished to ask the Under Secretary for War a question of which ho gave notice yesterday, and
 538 The Times "At five a.m. a ward was given over to me. It contained no patients. I was requested to see what was wanted for it. I found in it fourteen wretched shaky bedsteads, as many mattresses stuffed with chopped straw, the mattresses not sewn up at the sides, and sheets and blankets to correspond. This was all—not a single chamber utensil, not a cup, knife, fork, or spoon—no large vessel for holding water—nothing but what I have named. I immediately applied for the various things deficient. Drinking-cups there were none; one chamber utensil only I could have for the whole ward, and two bedpans; nothing to hold water or tea—no plates The wounded began to arrive; that ward was soon filled; others were given over to me in exactly the same predicament. One orderly was given to attend on fourteen wounded men, not one of whom was able to move. Each ward was the same. The constant cry of the wounded was for water. We had nothing to give it them in. Old tin cases that had contained preserved meats were eagerly sought for, but out of these they could not drink, except by a most painful effort, as, of course, they had to be raised up in bed. I proceeded to dress the wounds; the orderly given me had never done that duty before, and when I asked him to give me lint strapping and gutta-percha he did not know what those articles were. Every moment he was called away to give a drink to some wounded man. Well, Sir, during the whole of that day the wounded had nothing to eat, and not enough to drink. During the night of the 18th the wounded came crowding in; some of them were admitted by the orderlies, without having seen a medical officer, and, consequently, not having been seen, their wounds were not dressed till morning. Yesterday the only food given to these poor creatures until nine o'clock at night was hard biscuit and tea! There was no bread for them, no arrowroot, no beef tea—nothing except tea without milk! I did not find this out until the bread had arrived, or certainly, as long as any bread was to be bought, my own men should have had some. We were occupied incessantly all yesterday and the day before in dressing and operating. As soon as one man was removed from the operating-table, another was put on. I have not time, Sir, to write more, or I could give many further particulars. I think these facts need no comment. I can vouch for every word I have written. Though I do not wish my name to be published, you are at liberty to give it to any of the authorities, or to any one who wishes to investigate the matter further. I beg to state that I am not a civilian surgeon, finding fault with what I do not understand.
 539 The Times "Your Committee are totally at a loss to comprehend the report of Dr. Hall, more especially with regard to the Barrack Hospital, the scene of so much misery and suffering, Dr. Hall having reported the hospitals at Scutari to be in as good a state as could reasonably be expected." 540 l.
 MR. PERCY  said, if the Report of the Sebastopol Committee were worth anything, the Government would not refer to Dr. Hall again. They would take precautions to obtain more certain information than, in a former instance, was obtained from Dr. Hall.
 MR.W.EWART  said, the Under-Secretary of War (Mr. F. Peel) had entirely misconceived the nature of the objection, which was not against the number of soldiers, but against their being all billeted in particular localities. On the part of the army, as well as on the part of the people of Scotland, he entreated the Government to form an encampment as speedily as possible in Scotland. It would be infinitely better, both for the soldiers and for the population. There should be one encampment in England, one in Scotland, and one in Ireland, and they would soon have a good and permanent army.
 Mr. FITZROY   brought up
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  asked whether the Government would have any objection to lay before the House documents to show why the stage-carriage duties had been remitted in certain cases to persons in this metropolis. It would be very satisfactory to have the memorials presented by those persons on the subject, with copies of the answers given and the grounds upon which this remission was based.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had already explained to the House that these compositions of duty were not the acts of the Government, but of the Board of Inland Revenue. He was not able to state whether any documents existed beyond the memorials presented to that Board, which could throw light upon the transactions to which the hon. Baronet alluded; but if there were any such papers he should be quite ready to produce them.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in answer to the statement that the House had been taken by surprise, said, if the hon. Member referred to the notice paper, he would find this notice given at length—
 "The Chancellor of the Exchequer—That this House will now resolve itself into a Committee to consider the Acts relating to the Duties payable on Stage Carriages in Great Britain and the Stamp Act."
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  observed that in yesterday's notice there was not one word of that stated.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the abbreviated heading was not his production. He was only responsible for the full notice.
 MR. WILSON  said, the Resolution had been framed in order to carry out an arrangement that he had entered into with
 610
 SIR J. SHELLEY  suggested the postponement of the Resolution.
 SIR C. WOOD  hoped the Resolution would be agreed to, as the difficulty which had been raised might be met previous to the introduction of the Bill.
 MR. J. MOWBRAY and MR. MURROUGH  objected to passing the Resolution before time had been given for the examination.
 MR. W. S. KNOX : May I also ask the noble Lord a question about the shilling a day which is stated to have been promised in another place to the soldiers in the Crimea? I understand that there has been some mistake upon the subject. Will the noble Lord therefore explain what extra pay is to be given to the soldier, and whether it is also to be allowed to those who have returned from the Crimea, and who have been in all the battles?
 COLONEL KNOX , in reference to the statement of the noble Lord the Minister for War in the other House, that the soldiers in the Crimea were to have double pay from the time they landed there, said that considerable misconception existed on the subject, and he was glad to hear it stated that the increase of pay was to be given in the shape of field allowances. He did not think the object of increasing the number of men in the army would be attained if the additional pay were given only to regiments serving in the Crimea. Every man would be wanting to serve in the Crimea, and, as that was impossible, it would be a great hardship upon regiments serving in India, America, or the West Indies, for them to receive only 1 s. s. s. d.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  replied that the Treasury had under their control and management the mails for Australia, and that his hon. Friend the Secretary for the Treasury would state what arrangements were in operation or in contemplation.
 LORD W. GRAHAM  wished to ask the Under Secretary for War on what principle, and by whom, whether at home or abroad, the compensation to officers for the loss of their horses had been awarded? In the first place, he would observe that nothing over 50 l. l., l., l., l. l. l. s.
 MR. COWAN  put the following question to the Under Secretary for War. If a letter from the Commissioners of Police for the city of Edinburgh, which was addressed to Mr. Cowan, and was by him transmitted to Lord Panmure in March last, has received the consideration of the War Department, and whether any of the suggestions therein contained for the removal of the existing irritation caused by the billeting of soldiers and militiamen upon private families in Scotland are likely to be adopted? Also, if the Under Secretary for War is now prepared to name a time when either by the erection of a camp, by the militia being accommodated in temporary or permanent barracks, or otherwise, the localities upon which they are now quartered will be relieved from the burden which is laid upon them? He had received no reply to his letter, or he might have been spared the necessity of bringing the subject before the House. He had learnt from Mr. Ramsey, Lord Panmure's private secretary, that several of the suggestions were considered of the highest value, and that one or more of them would be adopted. Since then he had heard nothing further on the subject. The law regulating the billeting of the militia was entirely different in Scotland
 541
 MR. SPEAKER : The rule of the House with regard to words spoken by any hon. Member to which exception is taken is, that the exception must be taken immediately. Since the hon. Member has spoken another hon. Member has addressed the House; therefore, no exception can now be taken to the words used, whatever they may have been.
 MR. G. DUNDAS : Sir, a few moments ago I was betrayed into the use of an expression to which a meaning different from that which was in my mind has been attached, and therefore I regret having made use of it. I can only say that I throw myself upon the indulgence of the House. All that I meant to say was, that I hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department would not spare any efforts to maintain peace and order next Sunday.
 MR. G. DUNDAS : All that I meant to imply was that the right hon. Gentleman should have a military force in attendance.
 MR. G. DUNDAS : I am very glad that the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has brought back the attention of the House to the subject which was first raised by the hon. Member for Westminster, because I am anxious to say a word upon the conduct of the police on Sunday last, against whom there seems to be a set made by gentlemen who in a manner assume to be, in a peculiar degree, the friends of the
 530 canaille Cries of and some sensation.
 MR. H. BAILLIE : I wish to take this opportunity of directing the attention of the noble Lord at the head of the Government to a grievance of which I believe the officers now serving in the Crimea have just reason to complain. It is that those who are now pouring out their blood and sacrificing their lives to maintain the honour and glory of the country are also called upon to sacrifice their pay, and are compelled, in the shape of income-tax, to contribute to the expenses of the war, It is very well for us who are at home to contribute to those expenses; but those who are suffering all the evils that such a war of necessity entails, are, I think, entitled to our consideration, because I look upon it as a positive injustice to subject them to a pecuniary loss. This tax falls with peculiar severity upon a deserving class of young officers who, having no private fortune, enter the army really as a profession; and it is the more unjust to them, since officers who embark for India are relieved from the payment of the tax. Officers in India, moreover, receive much higher pay than others. I will call the attention of the House to the case of two regiments, the 10th Hussars and the 14th Light Dragoons, which have just been sent from India to the Crimea. The moment that those regiments land in the
 532
 MR. RICH  wished to bring under the notice of the House the heavy charge and serious consequences that might ensue from grants to the widows of officers killed in action, as compensation for the price of the commissions which their husbands might have purchased. He hoped that the system of purchase, which was fairly worn out, would shortly be put an end to, whereby the country would be rid of an incubus slowly and effectually. His object in rising on the present occasion was to obtain from the Government some explanation with regard to the course which they intended to pursue. He understood the Government was prepared to grant sums equivalent to the value of the commissions of those officers who fell in battle; but he could not learn whether this applied only to officers who had purchased their commissions, or to officers generally. But could the Government confine this regulation to officers who fell in battle, and exclude those who died of their wounds, or from exposure in the trenches, or marches? It was impossible to confine it; it must extend to all the officers in the field. This would involve a great expense, and the country ought to know all the circumstances. It would be unjust to confine it to those who had purchased their commissions, for had not those officers who had been in the army twenty or thirty years just as good a latent right to sell their commissions, and were not their widows and families entitled to the same consideration? The more so, because it was presumable that the widows and families of officers who had not been able to purchase their commissions were in worse circumstances than those of others. He hoped the noble Lord would give a full explanation of the views of the Government on this point.
 MR. KER SEYMER  said, the statements which he had made with respect to what took place at Houndsditch on a Sunday had not been contradicted by any person; on the contrary, it had been corroborated by every statement which was made. He would also take that opportunity of repeating that, whatever might be thought of the place, there could be no doubt whatever the existence of this Hounds-ditch establishment was a disgrace to the metropolis. He thought it very inconvenient to go into matters in that House which were to be the subjects of inquiry, before the appointment of that inquiry. He could assure the House that if it were disposed to go into the matter he could say something on the other side of the question; and from what he saw on Sunday last he could have no hesitation in stating that the police were not the only parties who were guilty of brutal and cowardly conduct towards women and children.
 MR. WILSON  said, that the arrangement made for the conveyance of the mails to Australia by the Cape of Good Hope had been abandoned. But with regard to the contract for communicating every two months by way of India, that contract was not abandoned, but only suspended, in consequence of the number of ships belonging to the Peninsular and Oriental Company employed by the Government in the conveyance of troops to the Black Sea, and which the Company had been unable to replace on the packet service. However, a proposal had been made by the Admiralty, at the request of the Treasury, to the Peninsular and Oriental Company, to make an offer to the Government for the purpose of carrying the mails every month by way of India, but as yet no answer had been received, the Company having to wait for some information from the East that might regulate their offer, and hoping that some vessels now in the employment of the Government would be shortly at their disposal. He could assure the right hon. Gentleman the subject was one which
 536
 MR. ROEBUCK : I rose immediately after the hon. Gentleman to make that Motion, but I was interrupted. You happened to see my hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth, and, being unwilling to press myself on the attention of the House, I yielded; but I rose for the purpose of moving that the hon. Member's words should be taken down. I think that no man who feels as an Englishman and a Gentleman in this House ought to have used such expressions concerning the people of this country as were used by the hon. Member for Linlithgowshire. First of all, the hon. Gentleman called them  canaille; 535
 MR. ROEBUCK : Then, Sir, I suppose the hon. Member will apologise for his words.
 MR. ROEBUCK : Sir, I rise to speak on a very serious matter. Words have been used in this House which ought not to be used by English Gentlemen in the House of Commons. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Linlithgowshire (Mr. G. Dundas) has recommended to the Secretary of State for the Home Department to use a 6-pounder against the people.
 MR. SPOONER  took occasion to state that a communication had passed between himself and the noble Lord at the head of the Government that evening, with regard to a Motion which he had announced it to be his intention to bring forward, in relation to the evidence which had been taken before the Commissioners who had been appointed to inquire into the state of Maynooth College. From what had passed between the noble Lord and himself in that communication, he had been induced to believe that the noble Lord was prepared to give his assent to the form of notice which had been agreed upon between them. The noble Lord, indeed, had assured him that he would give his assent to that form, and had authorised him to move it. He had, however, since received an intimation through the Vice President of the Board of Trade, to the effect that
 608
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE : In order that I may not be out of order in making a few observations, I will move that the House, at its rising, do adjourn to Monday next. The right hon. Gentleman says there are plenty of facilities afforded for the identification of peccant policemen by the number and letter upon their coats. Now, I will venture to say that if any of those unoffending persons who complain had done so on Sunday last they could not have offered a stronger invitation to the police to break their heads than by taking down names and numbers. The right hon. Gentleman says he will institute an in-
 521 522 523 The Times "In the heart of London, on every successive Sunday in the year, in various streets, alleys, and courts to the north of Houndsditch, and therefore in my own immediate neighbourhood, are congregated upwards of 15,000 persons, engaged in traffic of various kinds, and constituting what is called the 'City Exchange Fairs.' The trade is carried on principally in Cutler Street, Phil's Buildings, City Exchange, Exhibition Mart, Harrow Alley, and Petticoat Lane, places notorious in the annals of crime for outrages and abominations of all descriptions. The articles offered for sale consist, for the most part, of wearing apparel and jewellery, and the fair lasts for the greater portion of the day. I speak from personal observation and inspection, and hesitate not to characterise the place as one of the very foulest sinks of profligacy and crime to be found within the length and breadth of London." "Of the 15,000 individuals there assembled some are Jews of the lowest grade, but the great majority are nominally Christians, uniting together in forming a multitude of the most ignorant, lawless, brutal, and degraded ruffians that the metropolis can furnish. In this vile haunt crimes are both plotted and perpetrated; for in a spot at the entrance to Harrow Alley I was myself informed on the occasion of one of my visits, by one of our excellent police, that of all the males there congregated, of various ages, and to the number of several hundreds, every individual had been a convicted felon. Stolen property is here disposed of to any extent, 'and no questions asked;' and an inducement is thereby held out to thieves from every quarter to bring hither the results of their crimes, assured of their immediate and safe disposal. I could furnish you with many details of this den of horrors." The Times "But I will content myself with affirming, that if there be an epithet in the English tongue more descriptive than another of a place reeking with blasphemy, clamour, and obscenity, and of a loathsome assemblage stained with every vice named or nameless, I would select and apply it to this foulest of foul scenes and filthiest of filthy multitudes." 524 Cries of
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, the right hon. Gentleman had put words in his mouth which he never used. He had stated that he said that the police, and the sergeant, and the commanding officer in charge of the barracks arranged how those soldiers taken in Hyde Park should be punished. He never said anything of the sort. He merely asked whether the matter had been hushed up, or whether it was to be referred to a civil tribunal. He was of opinion that it ought to be referred to a civil tribunal. The right hon. Baronet had said that he was satisfied with the inquiry on a former occasion, in respect to Woolwich. He certainly was perfectly satisfied with the subsequent inquiry, but he was not at all satisfied with the previous inquiry into that matter.
 MR. W. EWART  asked the noble Lord at the head of the Government if any measures had been taken to establish a system of examination of candidates for the diplomatic and consular service?
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, there was no complaint against the soldiers for their conduct. On the contrary, their conduct generally has been such as to have earned the commendation of all persons. When the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department had stated the nature of the inquiry which he was about to institute, he (Mr. Fox) thought he could undertake to furnish that tribunal with several respectable names of parties who had witnessed gross atrocities in Hyde Park on Sunday last—such, for instance, as striking unoffending old men while quietly walking, striking women and children, and cases of this kind. One gentleman who had written to him was a clergyman, who stated that he was walking by accident that way, and was attracted by the crowd to see what was going on. He saw a policeman with great and unprovoked fury striking in every direction. He addressed himself to the policeman; but such was his threatening attitude and motions towards the writer, that he thought it much better to reserve his condemnation of the act till a future occasion, and retire from the scene as quickly as possible. His earnest wish was that such an examination would be instituted as would quiet the minds of the people, and restore a good understanding between the population gene-
 528
 MR. MONSELL : I should say rather more severe.
 MR. MONSELL  said, when it was determined to appoint certain young gentlemen of greater age than those generally appointed to the army, Sir Hew Ross directed letters to be sent to the public schools, to say that such arrangements were in contemplation, and to ask if they would assist. Altogether seventy were nominated, between eighteen and nineteen years of age, and of these seventy, thirty were at present in the practical class at Woolwich, and had been so for three or four months,
 518
 MR. WATSON  wished to call the attention of the Government to the fact that due rewards and encouragement had not
 543
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the public were under great obligations to his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury, for bringing forward the subject; and for having obtained from the right hon. Gentleman the promise that a full and searching inquiry would be instituted. He believed that that assurance would be the means of preventing any further disturbance. The people of this country were anxious for upholding the laws and the preservation of the peace; and any occurrence was to be deprecated that irritated them with their own servants—for the police were paid, not by the Government
 531
 MR. F. PEEL  stated, in answer to the question of the noble Lord the Member for Grantham (Lord W. Graham), that compensation to officers for the loss of their horses was awarded under the regulations laid down by the Horse Guards according to the rank of the officers. In reply to the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Stafford) he had to state that if the letter of the army surgeon in  The Times 542 "In anticipation of the attack, I gave directions the evening before that temporary field hospitals should be established as far in advance down the ravines as safety would admit; that tents, an abundance of water, stimulants, and surgical appliances should be provided, so that aid might be at hand for those who required immediate assistance, and that the right attack should be under the direction of Staff-Surgeon Logan, and the left under that of Staff-Surgeon Paynter. Deputy Inspector-General of Hospitals Taylor established his field hospital down the Picket-house Ravine, and remained there for five hours himself. These tempory establishments were found of the greatest comfort and use, and should there be any future occasion of this kind, I will see that they are established for all the divisions. As the men were dressed, and the same with those that did not urgently require it, they were placed in the small chairs or litters, and sent up either to their own regimental hospital or to the general hospital which has been established in camp. We found the chairs and litters of the greatest use in bringing the wounded from the trenches and up the ravines, where waggons could not travel, and I am sorry the whole 200 are not here. A party of 250 Croats, in addition to the regimental bandsmen, were also employed in removing the wounded from the field, and the whole duty was performed in a speedy and very satisfactory manner."
 MR. BOWYER : The right hon. Baronet has stated that the police judiciously avoided coming into collision with the soldiers. I was present, and saw the transaction in question, and I can inform the right hon. Baronet that two soldiers were seized by the police and dragged about so violently by them that the people cried "Shame!" I saw that myself, and was indignant at the manner in which the soldiers were treated. We are bound to believe, after the statement of the right hon. Baronet that the inquiry will be both searching and fair; but I ask would there have been such an inquiry if the hon. Member for Finsbury had not brought forward this question? I will tell the House what is the course which is usual at the Home Office when complaints of this sort are made. The Home Secretary institutes what he calls an inquiry—that is to say, he asks the police what their statement is. Then, having done that, he believes the police, and he does not
 529
 MR. BOWYER  asked whether Her Majesty's Government would lay before the House, in continuation of former returns, papers showing the relations of the kingdom of Sardinia with the Holy See up to the present time.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that if they were to appoint a Commission to inquire into the proceedings of the police in Hyde Park on Sunday last, they ought to abstain from making statements calculated to prejudice that inquiry. He had proposed no formal inquiry, but a full and searching inquiry into the allegations that had been made to him with regard to the conduct of the police last Sunday. The
 525 526 The Times
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I stated yesterday that where any specific case of alleged misconduct on the part of the police was brought under my notice I should feel it my duty to institute a strict and searching inquiry into such charge. I am not, however, prepared to say that the petitions presented yesterday—which I have had no opportunity of looking into—afford sufficient grounds for inquiry. I have received a large number of representations on the subject from persons wholly unknown to me—some stating that they did see acts of unnecessary violence on the part of the
 520 Vic. l.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  asked the Secretary of State for the Colonies whether he had received copies of a circular of the Governors of the Australian Colonies, containing the description of a plan for the establishment of regular steam postal communications with these Colonies?
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY : I beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether, after the allegations contained in the petitions presented to this House in reference to the conduct of the police on Sunday last, it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to institute a searching inquiry?
 SIR ERSKINE PERRY  asked the President of the Board of Control, whether accounts have been received at the India House that the Guzerat Irregular Horse, the Nizam's Irregular Cavalry, and some regiments of Bengal Irregular Cavalry, have volunteered for the Crimea; and whether he can inform the House what is the total amount of Irregular Cavalry that has so volunteered?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, such papers as were asked for would not be papers in continuation of those already laid upon the table. The papers referred to related to the regulations observed by different countries with regard to the admission of bulls and official communications with the Holy See, and were obtained by correspondence with different foreign Governments. Those asked for were papers which had passed between the Government of Sardinia and the Holy See, with regard to transactions passing in the kingdom of Sardinia, and in respect to which Her Majesty's Government had no right to interfere. They had no official cognizance of them, and therefore it was quite impossible to comply with the request of the hon. Member.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, his noble Friend Lord Panmure had hoped before this to have been able to put the arrangement in such a shape as that it could have been communicated to Parliament. However, unexpected difficulties had presented themselves, which were not yet overcome, and hence the delay which had occurred.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : In reply to the question of the hon. Member for Inverness-shire, I have to say that the income tax, as it is well known, is by law imposed upon all payments made to public servants, and, therefore, it applies by law to all officers, whether serving at home or abroad, subject to those variations only which depend on the amount of their incomes, whether above or under 100 l. 533 d.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the hon. Gentleman had stated the circumstances correctly. After seeing the hon. Gentleman's Motion and consenting to it, he had reconsidered the matter, and thought it better to support an Amendment by the Chief Secretary for Ireland. The result was only that the hon. Member's Motion now stood in the same position as it occupied before the consent was given. He could not in the state of public business give the hon. Gentleman a day for his Motion.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, a sys-
 544
 MR. ELLIOT LOCKHART  said, he should move that the Bill be recommitted. He did not think that the right hon. and learned Lord was aware of the effect of his own Amendments.
 MR. JOHNSTONE  said, he opposed the clause, because he believed that it was entirely without an object, and accomplished nothing.
 MR. ELLIOT LOCKHART  said, he must complain of the course taken by the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate in inducing him (Mr. Lockhart), as well as others, to withdraw Amendments of which they had given notice, upon the understanding of a certain clause being proposed by the right hon. and learned Lord, which clause was subsequently withdrawn, and the present one substituted.
 MR. LLOYD DAVIES  said, that, if 200,000 l.
 MR. LLOYD DAVIES  said, he regarded the measure with great suspicion, in consequence of the studied caution manifested by the Lord Advocate in indicating the expenditure which it would entail upon the country.
 COLONEL DOUGLAS PENNANT  said, he wished to ask if the right hon. Baronet was aware that a gallant admiral, Sir George Seymour, had attempted to put a stop to the destruction of property in his own neighbourhood, and had been struck down by a stone on the head, and had been severely injured.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that it was often impossible to ascertain the amount of capital embarked in a business, and even if it were, the proviso would not be just or expedient.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, he had been astonished to hear Scotch Members charged with refusing to accept public money. He did not think Scotchmen were generally liable to such an accusation, or that much weight would be attached to it by the House. The Scotch Members were ready to accept any amount of money that was necessary for education in Scotland, but they thought the proposed measure would lead to an unnecessary expenditure, and on that ground they objected to it. He regretted that, after the statements of the hon. Member for Stirlingshire, the Lord Advocate had not thought it necessary to explain more fully what would be the operation of the measure. He (Mr. Scott) was satisfied that when English Gentlemen understood the subject they would find that this was really a Bill to extend expenditure and to contract education.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, that there was already a very good system of education in Scotland, and he could not see that any case had been made out for the lavish profusion proposed by the Bill. He could not understand why the parochial schools now in existence were to be absorbed in the Government schools at the expense of the public.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, he must likewise complain that the right hon. and learned
 630
 MR. DUNLOP  said, no part of the empire drew so little of the public money as Scotland did. England and Ireland received large amounts for various purposes, while Scotland got comparatively nothing. He thought that when they consented to be rated more than one-half what they drew from the public funds, the people of Scotland were not likely to go too far in that direction. In the calculation of the expense made by his hon. Friend (Mr. Blackburn) he left out of sight the sums now obtained, which were—for the Free Church, 21,000 l., l.
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  said, he would now move to strike out the words "by the Master" from Clause 27, so as to leave the inculcation of religious instruction to the School Committee.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he felt called on to complain that the Lord Advocate had given no statement of the sum total that would be imposed on the country by the Bill. The whole system appeared to him to be one that would give a monopoly of the grants to the Free Church, while it would have the effect of keeping down the free action of the voluntaries whose principles prevented them from taking any portion of the grants. He thought the Bill would have a pauperising tendency, and that it would tend to demoralise rather than educate and elevate the people of Scotland.
 MR. ARCHIBALD HASTIE  said, he rose to move that the House do go into Committee upon the Bill that day three months. In doing so, he must complain that the Bill had been introduced and carried on without the usual opportunities for discussion. It had been brought in without any explanation, and had been read a second time without his having any opportunity of expressing his objections to it. He, therefore, took the present occasion to explain his reasons for objecting to the measure, and he believed he would be able to adduce the opinions of great economists and men of high commercial standing in opposition to the Bill. It was to be expected, that the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Board of Trade, would have shown some deficiency of capital required for carrying on manufacturing and commercial undertakings which rendered necessary the measure he proposed; but nothing of the kind had been proved. The Bill was very artfully drawn, in order to captivate all those who were about to retire from business, whom it would enable to retire—leaving, say 5,000 l., 637 bonâ fide en commandite
 MR. ARCHIBALD HASTIE : I have only followed the practice which I have long found to be pursued in this House, and which the right hon. Gentleman who introduced this measure himself adopted when bringing it forward. [Mr. E. BALL: The right hon. Gentleman only read extracts.] Well, those which I am now quoting are only extracts, and, when an hon. Member who is not accustomed to address the House finds extracts in a publication by one of the most shrewd and sagacious writers of the day so clearly and so distinctly to the point under discussion,
 638
 MR. ARCHIBALD HASTIE : With great submission, Sir, I believe the quotations I have read are quite pertinent to the question; and, in reply to the hon. Member for Glasgow (Mr. J. MacGregor), I would with much deference say to that hon. Gentleman, that unfortunately I do not happen to possess that gift of eloquence, and that rare power of speech, which it is the good fortune of that hon. Gentleman so pre-eminently to possess; and, therefore, I hope the hon. Gentleman will permit me to read a few more extracts. [The hon. Member then read further portions of the pamphlet, vith a view to show that a system of limited liability would be productive of very great disadvantages, unaccompanied by any countervailing advantages.] I must now advert to the several provisions of the Bill, and, with regard to the second clause, I contend that it will give rise to a system of the grossest fraud. I cannot avoid expressing my astonishment that the author of the measure should not at once have perceived the fallacy of that provision. I am convinced that the tendency of this Bill will be to increase fraud and bankruptcy, and to destroy the credit of the English merchant.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he did not think that the answers given by the right hon. Baronet were at all satisfactory. They had now had a third consecutive Sunday riot, and he wished to know in what way they were to protect themselves from a fourth? If he might be allowed to make a short statement—["No, no!"] Surely it was the custom to allow hon. Members to preface their questions with a short statement, and if the House would grant him that indulgence he would promise not to detain them more than two minutes, whilst he narrated what he had himself witnessed. He saw in Grosvenor Place yesterday a parcel of boys, about fifty or sixty in number, walking down the middle of the street breaking windows. They were surrounded by a large number of the lowest rabble, and there were also present a number of respectably dressed persons, who called themselves "spectators," and who certainly might have been better employed than idly looking on. Not a single police officer was present, but the right hon. Baronet was perhaps aware that a large number of the force were in the neighbourhood, at the top of Constitution-hill, and at Hyde Park. In fact, as soon as the disturbance was over the streets were occupied by them in numbers that might have resisted a hostile invasion with great success—and they remained there for the remainder of the evening. What he wished to know was whether the right hon. Baronet would state to the House what were the orders the police had received; and if the right hon. Gentleman was not prepared to give that information, he (Mr. Adderley) would move that the orders be laid on the table of the House. He should also be glad if the right hon. Gentleman would tell them what was the number of persons that had been taken prisoners; and likewise if he would state in what way the public were to protect
 623
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member for Paisley is quite in order in quoting extracts in support of his own views, provided he confines himself to quotations which are pertinent to the question. At the same time, there is a discretion to be observed in making such quotations. It is not regular to quote a whole pamphlet.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, Her Majesty's Government had received an account of the bombardment of Old Town, Calabar, by Her Majesty's ship  Antelope, Antelope
 MR. E. BALL : I rise to order. I presume it is not usual that Gentlemen should be allowed to read whole pamphlets as portions of their speeches.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he thought no more time should be occupied in preliminary discussion at that hour of the night, but the House should go into Committee at once. He only wished to clear himself from a misconception, which seemed to have arisen about the observations which he made upon a former occasion. There were two grounds upon which persons could be held liable for the debts of a partnership. One would be, that they held themselves out to the public as partners; and the other, that they participated in the profits. These grounds were totally distinct and separate. The Bill dealt only with the second condition, participation in profits; and the statement which he had made with reference to the Bill was perfectly correct. A man might, consistently with the operation of the Bill, if he were a dormant partner, enter by deed and document into stipulations which would enable him to protect his capital; but the Bill would not enable him to do so whilst holding himself out to the world as an active partner. That would be contrary to every principle of law and justice, and he (Mr. Cardwell) could never consent to any enactment of that kind.
 MR. MIALL  said, that no persons were
 635
 MR. MIALL  said, he would beg to leave out in Clause 21 from after the word "report" to the word "burgh," and insert instead the following words, "shall address a letter to the chief magistrate of such burgh, requiring him to call a meeting of the ratepayers, for the purpose of considering such proposed measure; and the chief magistrate shall, within ten days after the receipt of such letter, call such meeting, which shall be advertised as he may think fit; and such meeting shall be attended by the inspector, who shall give any explanations which the meeting shall require in regard to such school; and such meeting shall proceed to establish such school, and to assess themselves."
 MR. MIALL  said, those Liberal Members who had opposed the Bill had acted in a manner perfectly consistent with their principles. There was not one single liberal principle in the Bill, to which Liberal Members could point as a justification for their support of it. It was not a liberal Bill in point of religion; it was one apparently got up by the Free Church party, and contained much evidence of the selfishness and intolerance of that sect. The whole object accomplished by the measure would be to transfer the management
 628
 MR. GLYN  said, that by a recent Act
 644
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he wished to know what was meant by religious teaching. Was it the religion of the Presbyterians, the Catholics, the Episcopalians, the Independents, or the Unitarians, that was meant? He considered the clause as most objectionable. The Bill tried to be religious, but it was not and could not be religious. It was, in fact, a delusion practised upon the people of Scotland.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he wished to call attention to the fact that the establishment at Kneller Hall had already cost the country the sum of 62,000 l., l.
 MR. VANSITTART  said, that the tendency of the measure had been very much changed for the worse within the last few days. He considered that if the House agreed to it they would be taking a backward step in legislation, and therefore it would be most unwise to assent to it. His main objection to the principle of the measure was, that it vested the control of education in Scotland in an irresponsible Board, and he did not think that experience had shown that, where the State had interfered, the results of such interference had been so advantageous as to render the extension of such a principle expedient. Those establishments which existed at present under the care of the Committee of Privy Council had not been so well conducted as to lead them to hope that the system could be well applied in Scotland. If, indeed, it could be proved that the people were actually destitute of educational establishments, and that no voluntary efforts to meet the want had been made, it might be proper to institute State schools, but, until that proposition had been proved, it would be wise to abstain. It did not follow, that because Scotch Liberal Members supported the Bill the people were in its favour, for various reasons could he mentioned which would account for the support of those Members. But he denied that there was any degree of enthusiasm on the part of the people of Scotland on the subject, such as existed last year. Indeed, nothing could be more offensive to the various sects than an enactment which would compel them to support State schools, nor did he think that, on inquiry, the opponents of such a principle would be found to consist of a very small minority. For these reasons, he trusted that the House would reject the Bill.
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  said, he proposed to add to the second clause the following proviso:—"Provided that the moneys borrowed shall not exceed the amount of capital employed in the trade or business." It appeared to him that, without such restriction, the clause would leave a door open to great fraud, and, though the original capital  en commandite
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that the parochial schools were about 1,200 in number, and it would be found that about 16,000 l. l. l.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, the religious difficulty which caused so much discussion in that House, was no difficulty at all, for whether religious teaching was provided for by the Bill or not, the people of Scotland, it was well known, would take care to have religious teaching. It was only those Gentlemen who could not speak three sentences without betraying their ignorance of the people of Scotland that made any difficulty on that head. The Members for Scotland knew very well that it was so, and one of the most determined opponents of the Bill told him that such a provision was not at all necessary for the people of Scotland. He had altered the 27th clause of the Bill to meet the views of hon. Gentlemen opposite, but finding that they opposed it as much as ever after that alteration, his eyes were opened to the nature of their opposition. He was glad to say, that a large majority of the United Presbyterians supported the Bill, and finding that it was a hopeless attempt to conciliate the opposition, he was not willing to interfere even with the prejudices of those who were favourable to it. It was with that view he prepared the clause now under consideration. It would enable the Board to inquire whether the teaching of the schoolmaster was irreligious or immoral, to call in the assistance of a minister if necessary, and under the general clauses
 629
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, it was quite clear if the schoolmaster be found guilty, under the clause now before the House, he might be dismissed under the general powers of the Bill.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that the reason why Scotland received so much of the public money was solely because she contributed so much for educational purposes by voluntary contributions. The sums proposed to be paid under the Bill were greater on account of borough schools
 631
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, his object in introducing the clause was to put a stop to controversies on the subject in the Committee, an object which, if he assented to the Amendment, would be completely defeated.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he now would propose the addition of the following clause:—
 "If any complaint shall be made to the School Committee in regard to the religious or moral teaching of the master, it shall be lawful to the Board, on the report of the School Committee, to direct such complaint to be inquired into by the School Committee, with the assistance of the inspector and of such other persons as the Board may appoint, and who may be willing to undertake such duty."
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he was perfectly aware of the nature of the Amendments in the Bill, and should oppose the recommittal.
 MR. WILSON  said, he believed that from time immemorial it had been the practice of the Treasury to grant retiring allowances, whenever arrangements were made which had for their object the public benefit. Those allowances were not however absolutely pensions for life, for there was a clause in the Superannuation Act which rendered the parties receiving them liable to be called upon at any time to perform
 620
 MR. CHEETHAM  said, he thought the House ought to receive some clear and definite
 632
 MR. GURNEY  said, he wished to point out that there existed no very clear definition as to what a banker was, and, therefore, it might happen that a man might lend money—the borrower might do some act by which he would be held to be a banker, and so the creditor might be liable to an unlimited partnership by an act on the part of the borrower to which he was not privy. He thought it a matter of consideration whether some clause should not be introduced defining what a banker was within the meaning of the Bill.
 MR. GURNEY  said, it was perfectly possible that a firm which ought to return itself in that way might not return itself, and in that case it could hardly be said that by such an omission the firm was taken out of the category of bankers.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he hoped the House would give him a little of its attention on the subject now under consideration. Seeing that he had had the honour to draw up no fewer than forty-two Reports, which were presented to Parliament by command of Her Majesty, on the subject of the commercial system of the nations of Europe and of other parts of the world—seeing that he had also been officially connected for nine years with the Board of Trade, and that his recommendations on the questions of import duties had all been ultimately carried through Parliament by Sir Robert Peel—he hoped that he had some claims upon the attention of the House, although he might not boast the same gifts of eloquence as the hon. Member for Paisley (Mr. Archibald Hastie),
 641 l. l. s.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR : I rise to order. The hon. Member for Paisley might as well read to the House the whole works of Adam Smith, or all that has been written  pro. con.
 COLONEL SMYTH  said, he wished to ask the right hon. President of the Board of Health whether it was his intention, at that late period of the Session, to proceed with the Public Health Bill?
 MR. VANCE  said, he wished to point out that the Bill was borrowed almost entirely from an old Irish Act of Parliament, which bore the date of 1781. One very curious provision in that Act was that half the profits made by the anonymous partner should remain invested in the business, and also that any anonymous partner who meddled in the business transactions should be held liable to the extent of his means. It was rather unfair that the wisdom of the Irish Parliament should be made use of for the purposes of an English Act without one word of acknowledgment.
 MR. WALTER  said, he rose to put a question to the right hon. Baronet the President of the Board of Health upon a subject of vital importance to the inhabitants of London—namely, the impure and pestiferous state of the river Thames. A letter from Professor Faraday appeared in  The Times
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, that this was the clause in which the whole security for religious teaching existed. His hon. Friends around him did not think that the clause contained any such security. Now, supposing that an inquiry was instituted as the clause authorised, he wanted to know what was to be the result. There was no power given to the Board to do anything more. There was no power given to punish the schoolmaster if he were found guilty. The clause as it stood was utterly inefficient. He would therefore vote against it.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he must remind the House that the inspectors for Scotland did not inspect the parochial schools.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, the payments for schoolhouses, &c., were to be made by the Committee of Privy Council first, but a sum of 3 l. s. 633 l.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, that by the last Census there were 5,242 schools in Scotland, which number the preamble of the Bill stated was short of that which should exist. He would take the number, then, at 6,000. Of these, 1,000 parochial and burgh schools, at 16 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. MALINS  said, he thought that a fallacy ran through the arguments of the hon. Members for Paisley (Mr. Archibald Hastie) and Bridport (Mr. Mitchell), inasmuch as they had entirely overlooked the fact that the Bill did not address itself to ostensible partnerships, but solely to dormant partnerships. The hon. Member for Paisley complained, that the Bill allowed dormant partners to withdraw without the public being made acquainted with the fact; but he did not see how that could be a grievance, since the public never were aware of those partners joining. As the law now stood, a man could silently join a partnership, and silently retire; but under the proposed Bill a man could neither join nor retire without the public being made cognizant of it through the means of registration. With regard to the much-used argument, that there was no want of capital in the country, he must observe that there was no lack of capital for the rich, but that there was a great want of it for the poor. There was a great want of capital for men who were commencing life—there was none for those who had
 643
 MR. MALINS  said, he fully agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that the proviso would go far to defeat the objects of the Bill.
 MR. GREGSON  said, it seemed to him that the object of the Bill was to set up a new class of petty monopolists; its principle was extraordinary, and was objectionable. The Liverpool Chamber of Commerce had voted two to one against it, and men of business thought the country were of the same opinion.
 MR. IRTON  said, that as yet the only answer that had been given to the statements which had been made with regard to the expenses of the measure had been cries of "Oh, oh!" He, for one, should certainly like to hear some explanation as to the amount of expenditure contemplated under the Bill.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, I wish to put a question to the Prime Minister. It has been stated publicly in the circular which Count Buol addressed to the diplomatic agents of Austria, dated the 25th of May, that, considering the circumstances under which the Austrian proposal had
 621
 MR. MITCHELL,  in seconding the Amendment, said that, when the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Board of Trade had introduced his Bill, he adduced but few cases of grievance under the present state of the law; he, in fact, only brought forward two special cases—that of parties who, on retiring from a firm, were desirous of leaving money to their successors, and the case of patentees. The last-mentioned
 639 en commandite, l. 640 l. en commandite
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, that it would not only nullify the objects of the Bill, but it would be impossible that a balance could be struck so as to let a creditor know every day and every hour the amount of capital in a concern.
 MR. BARROW  said, he should vote against the clause, on the ground that it was one intended to carry out, to its full extent, the objectionable principle of centralisation.
 MR. W. BROWN  said, he must also express his disapproval of the Bill, and his fear that it might tend to disturb the high commercial reputation of the country, and eventually be as injurious to the general interests of England as limited liability had proved to be in France and elsewhere.
 MR. FAGAN  said, he must repudiate the imputation that the Roman Catholics had been bribed by promises of educational grants to support the measure. He had voted for it last Session, because he looked on it as an attempt to introduce a large and liberal measure in the room of the narrower one which had hitherto prevailed in Scotland. He thought that the Roman Catholic Members had good reason to complain of the conduct of the voluntarists in this matter.
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, he did not see the propriety of calling on the Lord Advocate to estimate the expenditure that would be required to work the Bill, because he did not see how such an estimate could be formed with any accuracy. He deprecated such complaints as they heard about the money going to Scotland. He thought that they ought to get rid of all such invidious distinctions. He thought, too, that a quarter of a million would be well laid out in raising the character of Scottish schools. It had been argued that the Bill was opposed to the principle of free trade in education. But the principle of free trade was not of universal application. Free trade pre-supposed the existence of a correlative supply and demand. But ignorance never demanded knowledge. Besides, the voluntarists had themselves overthrown the principle of free trade; for they had formed societies for the express purpose of crushing the efforts of individual speculators in instruction. What then, he wished, was to see that large society, the State, doing what was now being done by these smaller educational societies. Let those who complained of sending so large a sum to Scotland be consistent, and vote next year for applying an equally complete system to England and Wales.
 MR. W. LOCKHART  said, he thought the House was entitled to demand that a clear and explicit printed statement of the expense caused by the Bill should be laid before it.
 MR. W. LOCKHART  said, he hoped that the Government would be able on the third reading of the Bill to state the expenses likely to be incurred under the Bill, and the necessity which existed for incurring those expenses.
 MR. W. LOCKHART  said, he considered the present Bill even more objectionable than the Bill of last year.
 MR. WILKINSON  said, he should support the principle of the Bill. It was said that capital abounded where there was a reasonable prospect of an advantageous return. But he believed the present law was a great hindrance to the profitable employment of capital. The Hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. W. Brown) said in his evidence before the Committee of 1854 that the less they interfered with individual enterprise the better. He willingly admitted that principle, and therefore it was that the advocates of the measure were not looking to legislation, but to repeal legislation. He thought that the labouring classes would not be able to avail themselves of borrowed capital, but they would be discontented as
 642
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he did not intend to object to that part of the Bill which referred to Lady Raglan, but he thought it was highly objectionable to tax posterity for an annuity for the present Lord Raglan. If anything was to be done for that young nobleman it ought to be in the shape of a sum of money paid by the present generation. The annuity proposed for Lord Raglan exceeded the pensions conferred upon very distinguished officers who had rendered great service to their country. For example, Lord Rodney obtained only, 2,000 l. l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to know why the Lord Advocate proposed to give greater salaries in respect of borough schools than were paid for parish schools? The money was coming out of the pockets of the public generally, and hence some explanation was due to English Members. It should be remembered that these payments once fixed by Act of Parliament could not be dealt with like sums annually voted. He should also like to know when the Bill would come into operation.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the statement made by the hon. Member for Stirlingshire (Mr. Blackburn) was clear and distinct, and he believed it was also correct—that under the proposed measure the cost of education in Scotland would be 240,000 l. l. 634 l., l. l.
 SIR A. CAMPBELL  said, it was feared that the separation of the religious hours from the secular hours would lead to the separation of religion from the education generally.
 SIR ARCHIBALD CAMPBELL  said, that many of his hon. Friends had given notice of Amendments upon the 15th clause, but were induced to withdraw them in consequence of a clause to be proposed by the Lord Advocate. That clause, however, was subsequently withdrawn, and the present one substituted. Those hon. Members complained of the course thus taken by the right hon. and learned Lord, as they considered that the present clause was not practical. The right hon. and learned Lord had omitted to state what would be the practical effect of it. He wished to know whether there would be power to punish or remove a schoolmaster in the event of his misconducting himself? [The LORD ADVOCATE interposed a remark.] Yes, the schoolmaster might be dismissed if the Board chose, but hon. Members on his side of the House had no confidence in the Board, which had no religious element in it.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he was sorry that at present there existed no power whatever, either in the Government or in any other authority, to remedy the nuisance which had been so justly complained of as arising from the state of the river Thames. Up to last year, there was a Commission of Sewers appointed for the metropolis, the appointment being made wholly by the Crown; but by a Bill of last Session a new body was constituted, part of which was appointed by the Government; the ratepayers and vestries of the districts appointing the other part. But those Commissioners had no power whatever to acquire land for outfall works; and before any attempt could be made to divert the sewage from the Thames, it would be necessary to acquire that power. In the Metropolitan Government Bill, which had passed through Committee, he had taken power for the Metropolitan Board of Works to take land for outfall works, subject to the approval of the Secretary of State, and to take it compulsorily for that object. He understood that the present Commissioners of Sowers had before them a variety of plans, suggested by Mr. Stephenson and other eminent engineers, for the purpose of effecting that object. The Metropolitan Board of Works, supposing the Legislature to pass the Bill, would be constituted before the close of the year; those plans would be submitted to that Board, and would be presented to them in such a state that the Board might act upon them as soon as they thought proper. And they would have ample power, not only to take land for outfall works, but to raise the necessary funds for carrying out the object.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that considering the late period of the Session, and the fact that he had been allowed to pass through Committee a very long and important Bill, as well as to make considerable progress with another, it would hardly be acting fairly by the House if he attempted to persevere with the Public Health Bill that Session. He might, however, take that opportunity of remarking that the Bill had been very maturely considered by a Committee which had sat upon it twenty-one days, had taken a great deal of evidence, and had suggested several Amendments. It had afterwards been reprinted and circulated in the country;
 619 pro formâ,
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, he begged to ask the hon. Secretary of the Treasury whether the authority under which the retiring allowances lately granted to certain Poor Law Inspectors, named in the return No. 320 of the present Session, was derived from any Act of Parliament, and, if so, which? or whether the power of granting pensions, other than those sanctioned by the Act 4 & 5  Will.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had learnt with most sincere regret from a letter which he had received from Admiral Seymour, that a most dastardly attack was made upon him by the populace, when he, with the courage of a British seaman, seized one of the persons who were most active in committing violence against the property of the inhabitants in his own neighbourhood. When the gallant Admiral called upon the spectators to afford him their assistance in arresting the aggressors they, he regretted to say, did not respond to the call. Had they done so—and they were persons having the appearance of gentlemen—the gallant Admiral would not have sustained any injury. With regard to the number of policemen on duty, it was the same as upon ordinary occasions. ["No, no!"] He believed that they were the same in number.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the description given by the hon. Gentleman correspondend pretty much with the statement which had been communicated to him both by the Commissioners of police and by other persons; although he thought the hon. Gentleman had rather underrated the number of persons who followed the knot of boys and the other parties engaged in breaking windows. The hon. Gentleman asked whether the police were not in the immediate neighbourhood of Hyde Park, and whether they had not abstained from interfering. Now he was informed that there was a sudden rush from Hyde Park to Belgrave Square, and he was afraid the hon. Gentleman himself had suffered to a considerable extent. The mob was followed by a largo number of persons, who had been attracted by a curiosity which he could not help considering was blameable—and those persons so obstructed the road that the police could not force their way through the crowd to the front in time to prevent the mischief. In addition to sending a body of 400 men from the park after the mob, a message was despatched to the stations south of Belgrave Square, and 100 men, who were ordered to meet the crowd, succeeded in arresting some of the ringleaders. The hon. Gentleman said that there were no police in the streets; but in point of fact the ordinary police officers were on duty. [Mr. ADDERLEY—No, no!] The hon. Gentleman might be better informed; but he (Sir G. Grey) was told that the ordinary police officers were on duty, though, of course, they were quite unable to resist so large a crowd. The mob ran away as soon as the police were seen to arrive, including those boys who had committed the acts of violence in front. He believed that only one of the persons actually charged with throwing stones and breaking windows in that district had been arrested. He was arrested by a gentleman, an acquaintance of his (Sir G. Grey's). If other persons who were looking on while these acts of violence were committed had vigorously exerted themselves, he believed that several others of the offenders might have been taken. The person who had been so arrested had been fined 40 s., 624
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I am sorry that the right hon. Gentleman should think it necessary to ask me whether, when the mob yesterday were breaking windows in Belgrave Square, Wilton Street, Eaton Square, and in Tottenham Court Road and the Hampstead Road (where much the greater damage was done), it was in consequence of orders from me that the usual protection of the inhabitants was withdrawn. It is scarcely necessary, I should suppose, for me to say I gave no such orders. I may say I had no intimation, nor was it known to the police, or any one
 622
 MR. CAIRNS  said, that the Irish Act in question was so clogged in its details with regard to registration and other matters that it was rendered a perfect dead letter; and, so far as he knew, no partnerships had taken place under its provisions.
 SIR JAMES ANDERSON  said, he wished to ask the First Lord of the admiralty whether Her Majesty's Government had received any report of the bombardment and destruction, on the 9th of January last, by Her Majesty's steamship  Antelope,
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, that when the noble Lord at the head of the Government proposed that a grant should be given to the Roman Catholics in Scotland, there was a storm of opposition raised in the Protestant papers of Scotland, which was calculated to appal the Government. The right hon. and learned Lord Advocate then made a kind of compromise upon the subject by proposing the present clause, which really meant nothing.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I wish to put a question to the Home Secretary relative to the riotous proceedings of yesterday, to ask whether it was in consequence of any orders given by him that when the mob were breaking the windows yesterday in Belgrave Square there were no police present—in fact, no person for the protection of the public, and to check the violence of the mob?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I have no difficulty, Sir, whatever in answering the question of my right hon. Friend, by saying Her Majesty's Government have already determined to lay upon the table of the House the whole of the correspondence bearing upon that Austrian proposal. It is now in preparation, and I hope in a couple of days, at all events, to be able to lay it upon the table of the House.
 MR. ADDERLEY  did not suppose that the Committee desired to establish any difference between one description of poison and another; but, as the clause now stood, it applied only to injury being done to the water by gas washings. There were, however, other poisonous discharges into open streams, to which he thought this clause ought to be made equally applicable, and he would suggest the insertion of words which would make the clause applicable to any poisonous washing or discharge.
 MR. CHEETHAM  said, that he would oppose any such clause whenever it was proposed. Who was to say what was or was not poisonous? Such a clause would put a stop to all the manufactories of the country.
 SIR G. GREY  observed, that if the word "poisonous" were inserted, without determining what description of poisonous substance was meant, it would lead to much confusion.
 MR. HENLEY  considered this to be the most important question involved in the whole Bill. They were now beginning to deal with the pecuniary interests of men in trade. The great question they had to
 672
 SIR B. HALL  promised to give his attention to the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman.
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  entreated his hon. Friend (Mr. Adderley) not to cease in his efforts to accomplish the object he sought to attain. The health of the people required it, and he saw no reason why there should be any more difficulty in persons engaged in other pursuits complying with the conditions required, than there was on the part of the gas companies.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he would not now press his Amendment; but he should certainly persevere in his endeavour to get a clause inserted to compel towns to use every practicable means to preserve from pollution the streams which they now converted into sewers.
 MR. DAVIES  supported the proviso.
 SIR B. HALL  would appeal to the hon. Member whether the proviso could be at all operative? If the smelting works were a nuisance, they ought to be subjected to the same law as was applied to other nuisances; but if they were not a nuisance, then the hon. Gentleman could have nothing to complain of. He thought it would be much better not to make any exception, but allow the clause to apply to all trades.
 MR. HENLEY  concurred in the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman, that no exception should be made. If persons were improperly convicted, they would have a right of appeal.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  objected to the clause altogether, on the ground that it would deprive of the means of subsistence large populations crowded around many of the most important manufactures of the country.
 CAPTAIN ESMONDE  said, he put a question yesterday to the Under-Secretary for War which was not satisfactorily answered. His object was to ascertain if artillery militia regiments were liable to be moved in the same manner as other militia regiments, and also if it were competent for such regiments to volunteer for foreign service upon the same conditions as ordinary militia regiments?
 VISCOUNT GODERICH  said, on seconding the Motion, that he was extremely glad that the question had been again raised, because he thought that the result which had attended the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Aylesbury, and the Amendment that was moved to it by the hon. Member for Hertfordshire (Sir E. B. Lytton), could have been but little satisfactory to any one who was interested in the subject. He had ventured to say, in the course of the former debate, that the Amendment of the hon. Baronet the Member for Hertfordshire was vague in its terms, and was not calculated to bind the House to any specific course of action. He would not say whether he was right or wrong in the view which he then took, but he was sure that the fate of that Amendment must have convinced everybody that it was not intended to be binding either upon the Government or the House, for it was finally passed at Two o'clock in the morning, and, as he was told by the ordinary channels of information, "amid loud laughter," and under these circumstances he thought the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. V. Scully) was justified in moving his present Resolution. He quite agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman in what he had said with regard to the Order in Council of the 21st of May last. It was a step in the right direction; but, in order to be of any effect, it must be followed by
 680 681 682
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the hon. and learned Gentleman who has brought this subject under the consideration of the House has recommended it to their attention by stating that it is a measure for the furtherance of administrative reform. Sir, Her Majesty's Government are as desirous of promoting administrative reform as either the hon. Member himself or any other Gentleman in. this House. The question, however, which we now have to consider is, what is administrative reform? Is the measure which the hon. Gentleman has proposed a measure in furtherance of administrative reform? Now, Sir, under the term "administrative reform" I conceive two classes of measures. One class consists in an examination of all the existing departments with respect to the classification of their subjects, the distribution of their labour, and the number of persons employed—their duties, their qualifications, and their efficiency. In a former discussion I had the honour of stating to the House that a series of investigations had been instituted by a succession of Governments—by the Government of my noble Friend the Secretary of State (Lord John Russell), by the Government of Lord Derby, and by subsequent Governments—into the different departments of the State; that these investigations were conducted by competent inquirers; that reports were made in consequence of those investigations; and that all the practical recommendations of those reports have subsequently been carried into effect. The best proof which either the present Government or previous Governments could give of their zeal in the cause of administrative reform was by instituting detailed inquiries into the
 683 684
 MR. V. SCULLY : So far from proposing that there should be no qualification, my object is, that the person who has the best qualification should be selected.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Yes, I understood the hon. Gentleman quite correctly. What I meant to say was that, according to his plan, it would be permitted to any person, without any qualification whatever, to propose himself as a candidate. His qualifications would be subsequently ascertained by a process of examination; but there would be no preliminary qualification required to enable a man to constitute himself a candidate. Well, that, therefore, would be the second principle which the hon. Gentleman proposes. First, he says, there should be entire publicity in examinations; any person should be permitted to become a candidate for admission into the civil service; and, last of all, the object of the examination should be, not to ascertain whether a candidate comes up to a certain standard—whether he possesses certain prescribed qualifications—but to ascertain which is the best out of a given number of persons—that is to say, that
 685 686 687 688 689 690 691 692 693 imperium in imperio 694 695 696
 MR. WILKINSON  said, he was anxious to take this opportunity of stating, that he concurred with those who were urging on Ministers some improvement of the present system. It appeared to him that the right hon. Baronet (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had raised up a great many giants for the purpose of overthrowing them, for he found nothing in the Resolution about a competitive or literary examination. What they must get rid of was the system of patronage which the hon. and learned Gentleman complained of—solicitations by private Members of Parliament in favour of those for whom they were interested. An hon. Baronet opposite (Sir Stafford Northcote) had alluded to a pledge, said to have been taken by a noble Lord on that side of the House (Lord Goderich), to the effect that his shadow should never again darken the doors of the office of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Wells (Mr. Hayter). For his
 697
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that the Resolution proposed, as the bases of appointment to the civil service, superior qualification and merit—than which none more free from objection could be pointed out; but he could very well conceive that the Government did not desire to see established any system that could interfere with their patronage; for patronage might be very convenient for a Government at times, more especially for those who now sat on those benches. He had heard it said, that Government could not exist without patronage; but he thought that a Government which could not exist on its own intrinsic merits should not exist at all. The noble Lord at the head of the Government and the Chancellor of the Exchequer had both said they desired administrative reform; but when he found them opposing a Motion which took, at least, one step in that direction, he could arrive at no other conclusion than that it was a mere matter of policy and not of honest conviction, which made them agree to the Resolution brought forward by the hon. Member for Hertfordshire (Sir E. B. Lytton), and that they had no real intention of carrying out practically measures of administrative reform. He would support the present Motion as a step in the right direction, for he believed that we should not have administrative reform till we had the abolition of all patronage in the junior appointments in the civil service. Having offered these remarks, perhaps the House would allow him to allude to some matters personal to himself that occurred in a debate which had that evening been referred to, and which had no indistinct bearing on the question now before the House. It had been stated in that House and elsewhere, that he was a
 698 l., l. l. European European European Oneida, 699 l. l. Robert Lowe 700 l. l. Tynemouth, 701 Tynemouth. 702 Swarthmore l., Perseverance, Perseverance 703 l. l. Himalaya,
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member is now going into a matter not personal to himself. On any matter personal to himself the House will extend their indulgence to him; but, having gone into matters not personal to himself, nor referring to the subject before the House, I think the hon. Member ought not to pursue that subject.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that after that intimation, he would merely allude to matters strictly personal to himself, and take another opportunity of adverting to this portion of the subject. He spoke at great disadvantage, considering that he was encroaching on the indulgence of the House, but he would not detain them much longer. The right hon. Baronet said that "the hon. Gentleman had entered into contracts for the delivery of coals, but somehow or other he never performed his contracts in time;" and he picked out three contracts amounting to 10,000 tons. He went back some ten years and raked up those three. He admitted that he had been behindhand in 1852, but that was a most extraordinary year. Ships could hardly be got at any price; still, the firm of which he was the head, did bring up coals, though at a great loss. But if they had been behindhand in those three instances, what was that, considering the extent of the whole series of contracts, which amounted to 600,000 tons? He would, however, prove that the right hon. Baronet was not justified in
 704 British Tar l.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : I am glad to avail myself of the opportunity which the speech of the hon. Gentleman has given me, of making a short statement to the House, on some points in which he has questioned here and elsewhere the accuracy of what I have said on a former occasion. In making
 705 706 Swarthmore, "This vessel carries in her construction itself such elements of ruin, that, unless considerable alterations are made, one can only expect to stop her actual leaks, without removing their causes, which will operate whenever the vessel labours at sea." 707 Tynemouth The Times, Tynemouth 708 "In accordance with your letter of yesterday I beg to inform you that early this morning I proceeded to Blackwall, and examined the machinery of the steamship  Tynemouth. "In compliance with your order, we proceeded to Greenhithe to inspect the  Tynemouth, 709 Robert Lowe, Robert Lowe 710 subsequent before Columbian, Robert Lowe, European. The Times, European. The Times, "I stated, further, that the  European 711 European European European; European. "I am commanded by the directors of the transport service to acquaint you, in answer to your letter of the 1st inst., that they decline your offer of the  European European. European European, 712 Columbian European
 MR. LINDSAY,  amid cries of "Spoke," said, I must just say one word in explanation. The  Robert Lowe European
 SIR C. WOOD : The whole particulars of the  European
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to bring back the House to the debate from which it had diverged about an hour and a half ago, and which was far too important to be set aside by a mere personal discussion. He thought that those who were interested in the question had every reason to congratulate themselves that this important subject had at last attracted attention in a form in which its merits could be fairly debated, and that they might further congratulate themselves upon the tone of the speeches which had been delivered, and upon the weakness of the arguments which had been directed against the proposition of the hon. and learned Member for Cork. He imagined that the form in which the Government proposed to meet that Motion, by moving the previous question, was in itself an acknowledgment on their part that the views propounded in the Resolution were not unworthy of consideration, and were not to be absolutely negatived, although the present might not be the proper time for considering them. The reason given by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that it was not expedient, so soon after the Order in Council had been issued, to revoke it, seemed also to favour that view. But it appeared to him that the right hon. Gentleman had unconsciously misrepresented the effect and meaning of the Motion, because he spoke of it as if its object were to revoke the Order in Council recently issued, and
 713 714 l
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  wished to explain, that what he had meant to say was, that every appointment made was made either upon the responsibility of the Treasury, or upon that of the head of the department to which any person might be appointed.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : Just so. He did not intend to imply that any person putting such an advertisement into a newspaper was responsible for the appointment; but he wanted the House to consider the way in which these things were managed. Now, supposing "F. P." had received an answer to his advertisement, he would make sure of getting 500 l 715 status 716 "concours universel," concours. 717
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that as far as he had understood the Chancellor of the Exchequer's speech, he had gathered from it that the right hon. Gentleman was in every way anxious to improve the public service, and did not commit himself to reject any scheme of competition, but was only unwilling, on a sudden, by a simple vote of this House, to adopt a system which even its advocates did not regard without some expression of doubt, and did not quite understand. He hoped it would not be supposed that those who had considerable doubts as to the desirability of open competition, and its success in procuring good clerks and servants, and who opposed such a proposal, were hostile to any improvement in the public service. He confessed that, having had some experience in that service, and having been ten years in one office, he did not at all concur in that general censure which was so strongly thrown upon the public departments;
 718 719 Eclair, 720 721 722 723
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, if I rightly understand the question upon which we are about to vote, it is not so much whether every expression in the Motion of the hon. Member for Cork is well adapted to the purpose which he has in view, as whether even fair exceptions might not be taken, either on the ground of ambiguity or on other grounds, to certain expressions contained in it: it is, however, on neither
 724 725 726 727 728 729 The Times s. A Guide to Government Situations. 730 s. "The degree of attention paid to the recommendation of a Member depends upon his value to the party he supports. One of the most zealous and powerful advocates of the Ministerial measures proposed would therefore obtain the patronage of half a dozen vacancies, while the silent supporter who just wakes up in time to record his vote would be disregarded." "The influence of Members of Parliament is not confined to those offices in which the appointments are made by the Treasury, but extends, more or less, to most of the Government situations, the patronage in the hands of those Ministers who are temporary heads of departments being dispensed with an equal regard to Parliamentary support. The exceptions to this rule consist in those cases in which an officer of State, sharing Ministerial patronage, obliges his own circle of private friends or distant relatives, by appointing them, or those whom they recommend, to Government situations. The most powerful influence of all, therefore, consists in the union of the claims of private friendship with those of valuable political support. It is as well to observe here, that the greater the number of applications on behalf of one individual that can be brought to bear upon the dispenser of patronage the better. Unless the one supporter be a Member of unusual influence, one will rarely procure an appointment. There seems to be almost a rule now adopted, that each applicant for public employment should have a proposer and seconder, but of course every additional application beyond this will serve to strengthen the case. In soliciting an appointment, the applicant must not be too certain that he has gained his end when the Member or Minister puts his name down upon his list, and promises to do his best for him; nor, indeed, when he may receive an official note from the Treasury or the private Secretary of the head of a department, informing him that his application 'has been received and will be considered;' these are often merely the official modes of quieting or getting rid of applications. If the Member really intend to serve you, he will have to make vigorous application at the proper quarter, where, as before stated, his success will depend upon his influence, and he may even have to be importunate on your behalf." 731 quasi 732 minimum, primâ facie 733 l l l 734 735 736 737
 MR. TITE  congratulated the House on an expression by the right hon. Gentleman who last spoke, to the effect that this question was making progress. He recollected on a former occasion the hon. Member for Hertfordshire stated that the movement on this question was directed against the present Government, and that it commenced within something like a fortnight after the noble Viscount at the head of the Government assumed the reins of administration. That was a mistake both in matter of time and in matter of fact. He believed that the formation of the present Government dated from the 23rd of February; and the first meeting for administrative reform did not take place until the 5th of May. The administrative reform movement was not a political movement, or aimed in the least degree at the Government; but was simply brought about by the disclosures before the Sebastopol Committee. What the administrative reformers desired was not any such interference with the Government or the patronage of the Government, as some hon. Gentlemen seemed to imagine, but simply an examination of candidates for initiatory appointments—not in the dead languages, but a practical examination: and after that, it was not desired to interfere with the practice of rewarding old servants by advancing them according to their merit. He accepted the declaration of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, thinking that the difference between the motion and what the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed was not very great, and, under these circumstances, he thought it would be wise not to divide the House, as every one appeared to be desirous that administrative reform should prosper.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I think it may safely be said as the result of the discussion that has taken place, that all parties are agreed as to the object we ought to have in view, that object being the filling of the different offices of the Government with fit and capable men. The difference between us arises upon the method by which that object is to be accomplished. And I must in the first place say, that I think a great deal of unjust clamour has been raised with regard to the efficiency and conduct of those persons who belong to the different departments of the State. It has been the fashion to say that the different departments of the
 738 739 740 741
 MR. V. SCULLY,  in reply, said, he thought the discussion of the question had been very satisfactory, for the speeches
 742 and laughter "Thomas Villiers Lister, Henry Percy Anderson, Charles Stuart Aubrey Abbott, Philip Henry
 743 "Many thanks for your prompt and kind attention to the recommendations which I and your friends here have made to you on behalf of A. B. It is humiliating to be obliged to ask a Government for so small a favour. The situation is only 10 l. "I should not wish you to suppose that I have asked the Government for appointments in the public service as favours to me or my constituents. I have simply demanded them as rights belonging to deserving Irishmen, but imposing no obligations of any sort." "The Rev. A——B——is about looking for a church living now vacant in the county of Cork, in the gift of the Crown. If you can do anything for him with the Government, without going under a compliment to them, he deserves anything that can be done, and you would always find him a supporter." 744 "My Lord—Observing that Her Majesty has confided to you the formation of a new Administration, I avail myself of the opportunity to direct your attention to the circumstance that among the many Members of the late Cabinet there was not one Irishman, and to the further fact that, though a quarter of a century has elapsed since the so-called Emancipation Act, no Roman Catholic has hitherto been admitted to a seat in the Cabinet, but that a large section of the Queen's subjects has remained unrepresented in the Government, and as effectually excluded as ever." "Dear Sir—On the 7th instant I addressed to Lord Palmerston the letter of which a copy is inclosed. The recent secessions from the Cabinet afford another opportunity for giving some practical effect to its suggestions. Perhaps you will now consider it desirable to bring them formally under the personal consideration of his Lordship, whose political confidence I presume you enjoy as fully as you are entitled to do from your relative position and long official connection."
 MR. HADFIELD  seconded the Motion.
 LORD WILLIAM POWLETT  did not rise to object personally to the Motion, though he believed it would be perfectly inefficient for its purpose. If carried, an hour and a half or two hours would be wasted on Tuesday evening; and, though, hon. Members would be obliged to attend to answer to their names, the hon. and learned Gentleman would be unable to secure their presence at the division. If a Member was not present, he would only be ordered to attend in his place on some future day. He hoped the Motion would be withdrawn.
 LORD SEYMOUR  concurred in the observations of the noble Lord, believing that the Motion, while it would not effect the object for which it was intended, would put many hon. Members to great inconvenience. There was, undoubtedly, a large number of Members in town at present; but a few were absent, some attending to the duties of the militia, others upon matters of more or less importance and urgency, and it must be inconvenient to those Gentlemen to be brought back to London at this time. He also thought that the notice was most unusually short. To have a call of the House a very few days after the Motion was made, appeared to be unfair to those hon. Members who were absent from town. It had been the custom to give ten or eleven days' notice. But what would happen when the call took place? The hon. and learned Gentleman wished to have a large division; but he would not accomplish that object by this Motion, because, hon. Members having stayed in the House for an hour or two, and answered to their names, would go away as soon as the call was over, and, very probably, would not be present at the division. Moreover, by occupying a considerable portion of time, the call would
 747
 MR. HADFIELD  supported the Motion. It was not right that half the Members should be absent on such an occasion; he therefore considered, that at the present juncture the Motion was a proper one; its object was to bring the representatives of the people together for the purpose of giving an opinion upon a most important question, and he hoped his hon. and learned Friend would take the sense of the House upon his present Motion.
 MR. WORTLEY  hoped that the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield would not press his Motion to a division. His proposition, if carried, would put a number of hon. Members to great inconvenience. The appearance of the House showed that there were plenty of Members in town, and if, as he conceived, the Motion to be brought forward on Tuesday next was an important one, there would sure to be a good attendance. Looking to the present circumstances and to the history of Motions of this sort, which had turned out to be utterly futile, he saw little use in pressing this Motion to a division.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that he was very sorry to give the House any trouble, but he thought he should be able to show them good reasons for the course he proposed. The noble Lord the Member for Totness
 748 May's Law and Practice of Parliament, "When the House of Commons is ordered to be called over, it is usual to name a day which will enable the Members to attend from all parts of the country. The interval between the order and the call has varied from one day to six weeks." "If it be really intended to enforce the call, not less than a week or ten days should intervene between the order and the day named for the call." 749
 MR. J. L. RICARDO : Some time since I ventured to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government with respect to the rumoured guarantee of a loan to the Turkish Government. At that time the noble Lord gave me an answer which, although it did not deceive me, conveyed an impression which I think was erroneous. As a  projet da loi
 SIR DE LACY EVANS : I beg to ask whether any provision will be contained in the Bill with regard to the employment of the proceeds of the loan for military purposes?
 MR. F. PEEL  had stated yesterday that the purpose for which a portion of the militia of this country and of Ireland had been allowed to form themselves into artillery corps was to furnish the Government with the means of occupying garrison towns, and taking charge of defences on the sea-coast. As it was intended to adhere to that arrangement, it would be useless to send those regiments to camps which were formed for instruction in field movements. There was no intention to exchange artillery regiments between this
 674
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : An arrangement will be made between the Governments to take care that the receipts of the loan shall be applied to military purposes, for which the loan is to be raised.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : At the time I was asked the question by the hon. Gentleman I was not in a position to give any other answer than the one I gave. Since that period a treaty has been agreed to between France and England on the one hand, and the Sultan on the other, by which the Governments of France and England make certain engagements with regard to the loan of 5,000,000  l.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he was of opinion that the best course for the Committee to be directed to pursue was, to report upon the facts, and let the House itself once, and for all, have the question argued by counsel at the bar. If there were no technical difficulty to that course, he would throw it out for adoption.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, if the House should determine to hear Baron de Rothschild through his counsel at the bar, it would be much better to take the whole matter into its own hands, to discharge the order for the Committee, to proceed at once to hear counsel at the bar, and then decide on the question.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he thought it was to be regretted that his hon. and learned Friend should resist their going into Committee on the Bill. The House had confirmed the principle of the Bill; in other words, the House had sanctioned the principle of the abolition of church-rates; and, when he looked to the nature of the question, and to the feeling to which the constant agitation of the subject had necessarily given rise, he could not but think that the House ought to be allowed to go into Committee to see whether it was possible to find a solution of that most difficult and embarrassing question, He did not believe that either his hon. and learned Friend, or the other advocates of church-rates, could flatter themselves that the question of maintaining those rates was anything more than one of time. When they saw that at least one-third—he might say one-half—of the population of the country were Dissenters, and when they knew that to every Dissenter the church-rates were an intolerable grievance, and the imposition of which was felt to be a most galling injustice, and was known to be a constant source of heartburning, it was impossible to suppose that the question could be allowed to sink and pass away. The opponents of the measure would have it agitated year after year, and more especially now that the House had sanctioned the principle of a Bill for the abolition of church-rates. What, then, would be the consequence of deferring the proposed measure? It would tend to produce discord between the two great divisions of the population. Surely, then, it would be infinitely better to avail themselves of any opportunity, if possible, to settle the question rather than defer it. The Dissenters felt that, to be called upon to pay church-rates, was an act of unmitigated injustice; and who could deny that, to compel a man to pay for a church to which he did not belong, and for the support of a worship in which his religious feelings did not allow him to participate, was not, upon the face of it, a most serious and dangerous proceeding? And what was to prevent Parliament from relieving them from such an injustice? It was said, "Oh, you have acquired your property subject to this impost; you knew that you would have to pay a tax, and which, although a personal tax, was a tax in respect of pro-
 767 768 l., 769 pro formâ, 770
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he considered that a measure of such importance ought, to have been introduced by the Government, and not by a private Member of that House; but, even although the Government had not introduced the measure, the House ought to have the benefit of the opinion of some of the principal Members of the Cabinet with regard to it. The second reading of the Bill was carried by a majority only of twenty-eight in a House of 406 Members, and in the minority were the First Lord of the Treasury, the Secretary for the Colonies, and four other Members of the Government. On the present occasion, therefore, as there was not a single Member of the Cabinet present, he should move that the debate be adjourned.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, it was evident that there existed on all sides of the House a desire that the question of church-rates should be settled. The second reading of the Bill had been assented to after a lengthened discussion, and he had voted for the second reading because, although he objected to the details of the measure, he thought that it was most desirable to establish the principle that all compulsory church-rates should cease. If he had any doubts as to the wisdom of abolishing church-rates they would be removed by the Bill brought in in another place by the
 788
 MR. COWPER  said, that on the previous evening they had had a discussion on the question of whether there should be a call of the House or not. The Motion of the hon. Member for West Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck) to postpone the discussion, because the Ministers were not present, was but another mode of subjecting the Cabinet to a call. He did not see that there was any reason at all for such a proceeding on the part of the House, for the opinions of Her Majesty's Ministers had been clearly expressed on the second reading of the Bill. On that occasion the noble Lord at the head of the Government clearly expressed the objections he felt to the details of the Bill, and opposed them because they were not proposed on the grounds he could have wished. As to the absence from the House of Her Majesty's Ministers on the present occasion, the fact was that they were attending a Cabinet Council, and could not be in their places in the House without neglecting other duties.
 MR. LLOYD DAVIS  said, that in the part of the kingdom with which he was connected the question was one of vital importance, and if the Motion for adjournment were not acceded to it would be his duty, even at that advanced hour, to offer some observations upon the Bill before the House.
 MR. LLOYD DAVIS,  who was listened to with great impatience, said he disclaimed any intention of talking merely for the purpose of occupying the time of the House, but he would not be deterred by clamour from entering into the merits of the question. If the Bill had for its object to relieve Dissenters alone from what they considered a grievance he should not object to it; but it proposed to do more; it relieved Dissenters and Churchmen alike, and took from the Church that which it had long enjoyed, in deference to the clamour of a small number of persons, quite insignificant when compared with the large number who were content with the law as it was. The whole operation of the Bill was confined to a few words, which were, "That from and after a certain date no church-rates should be paid in England and Wales." The clauses appointing a fund in lieu of church-rates, and appointing auditors, had been abandoned. They obliged the clergy to worship within those sacred edifices, and yet, with singular inconsistency, they took away the means of keeping those edifices in repair. It appeared to him that if it was just in principle to keep up tithes, it was equally just in principle to keep up church-rates, and it would be an act of the grossest injustice to take them away without giving the Church any substitute whatever. Instead of asking the House to go into Committee upon a Bill which did not contain a single particle of the provisions it originally comprised, with the exception of the first por-
 793
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : Sir, I am most willing, for my own part, to make any concession which will not involve an undue sacrifice on the one hand, and on the other will conciliate and disarm dissension. Peace, I conceive, is the end desired by the moderate on both sides—it will only be attained by either party yielding somewhat for the future. We must remember that the greatest part of the property of
 787
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the hon. and learned Attorney General had lectured the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Follett) who moved the Amendment, for interfering at the present stage, but he (Lord J. Manners) thought that the present question was one of sufficient importance to justify his hon. and learned Friend in the course he had taken. The Attorney General had dwelt upon church-rates as an intolerable grievance upon Dissenters, and urged, therefore, that the House ought to listen to the particular request for the removal of that grievance. But if those were the sentiments of the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Attorney General), how came it to pass that year after year had elapsed without the Government, which in all its combinations and mutations had had the assistance of the hon. and learned Gentleman's talents, having legislated upon the very subject which had so moved the indignation of their Attorney General? Did it not occur to the hon. and learned Gentleman that the very colleague who sat next him during the delivery of his speech was the particular gentleman who on a former occasion made the most able and vigorous defence of the very system of church-rates which had now attracted the denunciations of the hon. and learned Gentleman? Did not the Attorney General recollect that the noble Lord the Prime Minister not only refused to legislate, but gave the House to understand that legislation upon the subject was impracticable? The hon. and learned Gentleman had point-
 771 772 "Whereas church-rates have for some years ceased to be made or collected in many parishes, by reason of the opposition thereto, and in many other parishes where church-rates have been made the levying thereof has given rise to litigation and ill-feeling." 773
 MR. FOLLETT  said, it was his intention to move, as an Amendment, that the House resolve itself into Committee on the Bill that day three months. If he thought that this Bill was calculated to relieve individual consciences from anything like religious intolerance or oppression—if he thought it was calculated, really to add anything in any way to the religious liberty of the people, he would most willingly, and anxiously support it. But he did not think so, and it was because he believed the measure before the House was a political, rather than a religious question, that he ventured to intrude upon the House, He looked upon the measure as the first and main step towards the destruction of the Established Church, and as one of many measures which, from time to time, had been brought forward to alter the institutions of the country in a manner which, he was thoroughly convinced, would be prejudicial to the political, as well as the religious liberties of the people. He considered that it was his duty to move the Amendment of which he had given notice, in consequence of the extraordinary course which Her Majesty's Government had thought fit to pursue. The principle of the Bill was the total abolition of church-rates, and the substitution of nothing in their stead; and upon every occasion during the last twenty-years, when that question had been raised, every Government, until the present, had opposed it. Every Gentleman holding a prominent position in the Government had opposed it on former occasions, and he was, therefore, astonished when he found that every Member of the Government, present at the division, with the exception of three, voted for the introduction of the present Bill. He had been told that the course ho was taking, in opposing the further progress of the Bill at this stage, was rather unusual. The extraordinary course which the Government had taken, with reference to the question, was his reason and his excuse. Relying on the opposition of the Government to the measure, the subject had been fully discussed in its former stages, and he was therefore desirous that the question should be brought under the deliberate consideration of the House. There was no mistake
 754 "We have heard to-day, as we have heard upon former occasions, that this is a question of principle, that it is a question between an establishment and the voluntary principle, and that this is only one part of the proposal of those who wish us to exchange establishment for the voluntary principle." "They cannot expect me to consider it as an inducement to vote for this Bill, that it will lead me, step by step, to that total destruction of the Established Church which I deprecate." "We have a National Church, we have an hereditary aristocracy, we have an hereditary Monarchy, and all these things stand together. My opinion is, too, that they would decay and fall together.  * * * Hansard, 755 "With regard to the separation of Church and State, if the Dissenters cannot effect it by the legitimate means of free and open discussion, they must effect it by influences appealing more powerfully to the interests of mankind. The Church will fall when it ceases to have revenues." 756 "This was no longer a Dissenting question, it was a question of civil politics.  * * * Hansard, "He had never felt the slightest hostility to the Church as a religious body; but he opposed it as a religious institution, and he doubted very much whether it was of any essential benefit to the country."—[3  Hansard, 757 "There are many members of the Established Church who concede the principle that Dissenters should not be liable to these compulsory payments for the support of the Church; yet if that principle be acted upon and these compulsory payments are abolished, I should like to know what becomes of the Established Church. According to my notion of an Established Church, if it mean anything, it means a church supported by compulsory payments from all classes of the people." 758 759 760 l. l. 761 762 763 764 765
 MR. FREWEN  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to the fact that, so far back as the time of the Commonwealth, a Bill was passed which provided that, in order to preserve all parish churches or chapels from ruin and decay, and for the payment of church dues, every parish should, under a penalty of a fine, elect a certain number of churchwardens, who should levy a church-rate subject to the approbation of two justices of the peace.
 MR. E. BALL  said, he fully concurred in the sentiments expressed by the hon. Gentleman who moved the Amendment, that the overthrow of the Church of England would be a great religious, moral, and
 775 776
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, his only object was to ascertain the wish of the House as to the precise course to be pursued, and if the House thought it preferable that Baron de Rothschild should be heard by counsel before the Committee, he would withdraw the Amendment.
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, he disclaimed the slightest wish to prevent Baron de Rothschild being heard by counsel upon a matter so nearly concerning his rights and interests; but he entertained very considerable doubts as to whether the course proposed by his right hon. Friend the Member for Midhurst was the correct one; and whether, if Baron de Rothschild was to be heard by counsel, he ought not to be heard at the bar of the House according to precedent. Just let the House consider what were the functions of the Committee to whom the question was delegated. The House might remember that he (Sir F. Thesiger), from the first, opposed sending the matter to a Committee. The House had sent the matter to a Committee, but he did not understand that it had delegated its authority to the Committee in the sense that the Committee was finally to decide the question, because he apprehended the Report of the Committee must come back to the House for its decision upon it. His right hon. Friend
 751
 MR. GRANVILLE VERNON  said, he saw with surprise nobody except the President of the Board of Control and a Lord of the Treasury on the Treasury benches on such an important discussion, when he remembered that the Government had given a positive pledge to settle the question. He thought that some means might be devised whereby Dissenters should be relieved from the compulsory support of a worship to which they did not give adherence, and which he must say he looked upon as a real and substantial grievance. At the same time the subject had been taken up and carried out in a manner altogether so discreditably that he could not give the present measure his support. The whole Bill now consisted practically but of the two clauses—one a clause directly to abolish the rates, and the other providing indemnity in all cases where money had been raised upon the payment of the rates. The subject was dealt with in so unsatisfactory a manner by the Bill that he should support the Amendment.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he thought the proposal that Baron de Rothschild should be heard by counsel before the Committee just, on two grounds; first, it was just to Baron de Rothschild; and, in the next place, it would tend much to the elucidation of the legal difficulty. He trusted the House would accede to the inquiry, because if it should turn out that the Committee came to the conclusion that the Baron de Rothschild had forfeited his seat, he might fairly complain that he had not had an opportunity of stating such views to the Committee as would have induced them to alter their report.
 MR. GURNEY  said, he believed that by a large, influential, and intelligent portion of the people the payment of church-rates was felt to involve a very grievous injustice. Whether that feeling were well
 786 l.
 MR. WIGRAM  said, the reason which actuated him in voting against going into Committee on the Bill was the very reason which the Attorney General had given in favour of the Committee—namely, that the present state of the law respecting church-rates was a disgrace to our institutions. In that observation he entirely agreed. The hon. and learned Gentleman said that if there were a public question, which upon every ground called for the interposition of Parliament in order to its settlement that was the question. In that observation also he entirely agreed; and he believed that if the wish on the other side of the House was strong to get the question settled, that wish was on his (the Opposition) side of the House probably yet stronger, for he had received intimations from hon. Members right and left of him of their anxiety and desire to see the question settled, and the minds of men no longer disturbed regarding it. But he should oppose the Motion for the House to go into Committee, because the Bill, so far from having a tendency to settle, or holding out the hope or prospect of settling the question, would have the direct tendency of perpetuating and augmenting agitation upon the subject. The Bill proposed the total abolition of church-rates throughout the rural districts, where no one ventured to say they were onerous. It might serve the purpose of keeping alive the question as a means of Parliamentary agitation, but settle the question it would not; for it would have no chance of passing the other House of Parliament within the next twenty-five years. If any feasible Bill
 784 785
 MR. SPOONER  said, he wished to remind the House that the real question before it was, whether or not the debate should be adjourned. The noble Lord the Member for Totness (Lord Seymour), had stated that he disapproved the details of the Bill, but if he did so he maintained that that noble Lord, and every hon. Member that took the same view,
ought to vote for the adjournment of the debate, in order that, when it was resumed, the Government might be present and take part in the discussion. Two Cabinet Ministers had voted against the Bill on the second reading, and he should like to know what were the opinions of the rest of the Government upon the subject. Was it an open question with the Cabinet? Open questions now were permitted which formerly would not have been tolerated, and it was only a short time ago that the House discovered that even the question of peace or war was an open question in the Cabinet. If every question were to be dealt with in such a manner, there might as well be no Cabinet at all. The present question was a most important one, involving as it did the principle of
 791
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he rose to move that Baron Lionel do Rothschild should be at liberty to appear by counsel on Monday next before the Select Committee, now sitting up stairs, on the London Writ. The reasons which induced him to make the proposition were these. When the Committee came to consider the question, they found they had some evidence as to circumstances, and some as to facts, respecting the supposed contract or loan which Baron de Rothschild had entered into with the Government, and they would, of course, have to deliberate upon a question of law. As Chairman of the Committee he had received a letter from Baron de Rothschild requesting that he might be heard by counsel. That application had been very much discussed, and the Committee were of opinion, that inasmuch as Baron de Rothschild's seat might be affected by the Report they would have to submit to the House, it would be more satisfactory that he should be heard in the manner in which he thought his interests might best be promoted. The Committee,
 750
 MR. MASSEY  said, he thought it just, that as the seat of Baron de Rothschild had been impeached, he should be heard by counsel. The course suggested of hearing counsel at the bar would be beset with difficulties, and he could see no valid reason for resisting the inquiry asked for by the right hon. Member for Midhurst.
 MR. C. FORSTER  said, he believed that he represented the feeling of many excellent and pious ministers of the Church of England, when he stated that they were anxious that Parliament should extirpate that root of bitterness, church-rates. In Walsall, which he represented, there had been no church-rates for the last fifteen years. Churchmen and Dissenters had anticipated the measure now before the House, and had joined to repudiate the evil. All the animosities and heartburnings of former years had been removed, and he believed that there was no town in England where there was less sectarian bitterness than in Walsall. He well recollected that it had been continually necessary to call in the assistance of the police
 783
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he did not think that the hon. and learned Member (Sir F. Thesiger) had correctly stated the object for which the reference of the question had been made to a Committee; which was not as to Baron de Rothschild having forfeited his seat by entering into a contract with the Government, for many Members had entered into such contracts, and their right to retain their seats had never been questioned. It was clear that a question of law, as well as of facts, had been referred to the Committee.
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, that the noble Lord the Member for Totness had stated that he should vote for going into Committee, because he was anxious that the question should be settled. Now, he was equally anxious that it should be settled, and, in order that it might be, he was willing to agree to a certain amount of compromise; and, after the assurance given last year by the noble Lord the Member for London (Lord J. Russell), he had looked forward to some settlement of the question being arrived at during the present Session. Anxious, however, as he was that the question should be settled, and willing as he was to agree to some compromise, he was, nevertheless, not prepared to see it settled in the first way that might be proposed, or to see rights at once given up, which had been from time immemorial enjoyed by the Established Church. The noble Lord the Member for Totness had stated that he objected to the details of the present Bill, but that he should vote for going into Committee because he wished to affirm the principle contained in it, but that principle had already been confirmed on the second reading of the Bill. If the noble Lord objected to the details of the Bill, but approved its principle, and wished to force the Government to give effect to that principle, the best course he could pursue would be to vote for the adjournment, in order that the details of the measure might be discussed in the presence of some members of the Cabinet. The Tenants' Compensation Bill had been introduced by a private member of that House, and, upon the principle of its having been affirmed by the House, it had been taken up by the Government; but, surely, a Bill which proposed to take away from the Church rights which it had enjoyed from time immemorial was of equal importance, and was equally worthy the
 792
 MR. ROBERT PHILLIMORE  said, he hoped that he should not subject himself to the censure cast by the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken upon those who delayed the passing of this measure by unnecessary speaking, (a censure from which some people might think the hon. Gentleman himself was not wholly free,) if he offered some observations to the House upon the important subject now before them. His (Mr. R. Phillimore's) chief objection to the present measure was that it was not an honest one. It purported to be a Bill for the relief of Dissenters from the payment of church-rates, at least, all the arguments in favour of it had proceeded on that supposition. But, in reality, it was not only a measure to release all persons, Churchmen as well as Dissenters, from the obligation which the law cast upon them of supporting the fabric of the Church, and maintaining the celebration of the rites and ceremonies of the established religion; but it was also a measure which, when examined into, did, or endeavoured to do, an act of positive injustice, inasmuch as the practical effect of it would be to throw exclusively upon Churchmen the burthen of supporting the church, while it preserved to Dissenters all the privileges with respect to the rites of the church, which, in common with Churchmen, they now possess. Nevertheless, his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-General, had supported the Bill as being a measure for the relief of the tender consciences of the Dissenters alone, but he was sorry to say that there were circumstances arising out of the conduct of a certain portion of the Dissenters with respect to this question of church-rates, which demonstrated that hon. Members who had objected to this Bill, as being a political rather than a religious measure, had spoken with perfect candour and fairness. It could not be denied by any one who had looked into the publications and listened to the speeches of a certain portion of the Dissenters upon this
 777 Nonconformist, 778 779 780 781 directly ratione personœ, proprio motu, 782
 MR. ROBERT PHILLIMORE  said, he should support the Amendment. There were many hon. Members who, not having leisure or inclination to weigh the force of
 752
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he quite agreed with the hon. Baronet, that the present discussion might be considered a prolongation of the debate which took place on the second reading; but the hon. Member should remember that that debate was compressed into a single Wednesday sitting. Many hon. Gentlemen—and he was among the number—represented constituencies which regarded the present system as unsatisfactory, and would be most happy to see an alteration made in it, but, at the same time, they were not bound to accept any alteration that might be proposed; and therefore it was, he thought, a matter of justice to hon. Members so situated that they should have an opportunity of stating their views upon so important a subject, and of giving their reasons for opposing the present Bill. Another reason why the discussion should be continued was, that the Bill now was in a very different condition from that which it was when the second reading of it was assented to. The Bill, as it was at first introduced, proposed to abolish church-rates, and to make some other provision in lieu of them, but the Bill as it at present stood did nothing of the kind. The Bill did not abolish church-rates, for his own constituents complained that Dissenters were called upon to support an organist, whose salary was forced upon them by Act of Parliament, and the present Bill contained no clause which would remedy that injustice. Nor did the present Bill make any provision in lieu of church-rates, for, although the Bill, as originally introduced, substituted pew-rents, that provision had since been struck out, and the Bill at present proposed that voluntary contributions alone should be relied upon. The idea held out at the introduction of the Bill was, that its object was to relieve Dissenters from an injustice, but as it had since been altered, the only effect of it would be to shift the injustice from the Dissenters to Churchmen. The very principle of voluntary contribution upon which it was now proposed to rely in lieu of church-rates was restricted by the present Bill, which said that those who did not contribute should have a hand in the distribution of the sums collected. Many
 790
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, he would remind hon. Members that the principle of the Bill had been affirmed by the House,
 789
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said, that the hon. and learned Member for Bridgewater (Mr. Follett) had argued that the effect of the Bill would be to sap the foundation of the Church of England. From that opinion he totally dissented. The Church of England was now the united Church of England and Ireland. He thought when he came down to the House that they would have gone into Committee on the Bill, but as the principle of the question was again brought under discussion in a very temperate and conciliatory speech, he trusted he would be excused for making a few remarks. He denied that there was any analogy between the existence of the monarchy
 774
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he hoped that the House would consent to go into Committee on the Bill, and that the gentlemen opposite would not continue a course which would justly subject them to the charge of endeavouring to get rid of a Bill which they knew would be agreed to by a majority of the House by the expedient of speaking against time.
 MR. LLOYD DAVIES  said, that some years ago an action was brought against the proprietors of the copper works by a farmer in the neighbourhood. The trial took place in Carmarthen, but the point chiefly insisted on was a very irrelevant one, namely, the amount of capital the works had brought into the district. The verdict was for the defendants; but there could be no doubt as to the deleterious effects of the works both upon vegetable and animal life, for cattle were brought into Court suffering from distortion of limbs produced by the contiguity of the works. The proprietors, not with standing that they had obtained a verdict, afterwards spared neither ingenuity nor expense to abate the evil; and in every case where the same pains were taken they would be exempt from annoyance from the Bill. Even if a decision from the local authorities should happen to be obtained against them, they would have nothing to do but to appeal to a higher Court, and it would be quashed.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he entertained considerable doubts whether the clause was necessary. The 8th clause defined what should be considered a nuisance; by that (the 28th) clause a remedy before two magistrates was provided, but by the 29th clause it was intended to give the parties the right to have the question tried before a jury at quarter sessions. Why, he should like to know, were certain trades and businesses singled out in the 28th clause? He would suggest that the clause should be withdrawn. When dealing with the manufactures of the country, it behoved the House to take care what they were doing. Nothing was more delicate and susceptible than capital, and nothing was more easily removed. He had known the case of a great English capitalist, influenced by legislative interference, removing vast works to Belgium, and taking with him some of the best skilled English workmen.
 MR. DUNCAN  said, he had supported the Bill at each of its previous stages, but had felt it his duty to vote against the third reading. The Bill, as it now stood, was most objectionable in many respects. Under it the boroughs would be but little better than taxing machines in the hands of the inspector, the magistrates, who were the best judges of what was required, being practically powerless. He had been most desirous of carrying an Education Bill that should be practically useful, but with the restrictions which now incumbered it, he had no hesitation in saying that the measure now under consideration would be received with great dissatisfaction. There certainly were Amendments on the paper, which, if carried, would tend to remove some of the objections to the Bill, particularly that of the hon. and learned Member for Greenock (Mr. Dunlop), which he should support.
 MR. MALINS : Mr. Fitzroy, before you leave the chair, I wish to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government. A rumour is afloat in this House—and it has reached me from various quarters—that, during the present political pressure upon the Government, the noble Lord has been waited upon by a number of Irish Members, who have made representations to him with regard to the 14th clause of this Bill, a clause which has been rejected by a majority of thirty-six. The rumour goes that the noble Lord, under pressure, has made an arrangement to put up some supposed or  quasi
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Mr. Fitzroy, what has passed is a transaction most simple in its character and most easily explained. A certain number of Irish Members expressed a Wish to see me yesterday, and, when they waited upon me, they said that they were desirous that the 14th clause should be re-inserted, and they wished to know whether, if a Motion to
 833 quasi
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD : Sir, one point relating to this transaction has escaped the notice of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Malins), and, in order to throw some light upon it, I beg to ask the noble Lord if in the conversation which he held with those Irish Members it was not pointed out to him that several Members of the Government were not present at the division upon the 14th clause, and if he did not then promise that if a Motion for its re-insertion were made it should be supported by the whole force of the Government?
 COLONEL DUNNE : Before the noble Lord answers the last question, I wish to ask him whether the clause, the re-insertion of which he promised to support, was the clause as brought in by the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny (Mr. Serjeant Shee), or that clause as amended by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Of course, what I intended was, that I should support what I had supported before. [Colonel DUNNE: But which clause is that?] Why, the clause as amended by my right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland. With regard to the question of the hon. and learned Member (Mr. S. Fitzgerald) there can be no doubt that the deputation did take occasion to observe that certain Members of the Government were absent from the division which led to the rejection of the clause. I made answer that I had had occasion to remark the absence of some of the Members of the Government upon other divisions, and I took the opportunity of expressing a
 834
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE : Sir, as I was not one of the hon. Members who waited upon the noble Lord, and, as I have only heard accidentally in this House of the circumstance of any one waiting upon him at all, perhaps I may be allowed to ask him a question. I wish to ask him if the hon. Gentlemen who waited upon him requested him to support the clause as I introduced it, or as amended by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland? [An hon. MEMBER: He has answered that.] No, excuse me, he has not. As I understand the noble Lord, he stated to those hon. Gentlemen who waited upon him that he would support the clause as amended by the right hon. Gentleman; but what I wish to know is whether those hon. Gentlemen requested him to support the clause as amended, or the clause as I introduced it? If the hon. Members who waited upon him requested him to support the clause as amended by the Secretary for Ireland, I should like to know who those hon. Members were, because, in my simplicity, I believed that all the Irish Members supported the clause as proposed by me. If I am right in that opinion, I think it is of importance that the House should know who were the hon. Gentlemen who requested the noble Lord to support the re-insertion of that clause, mutilated as it was by the right hon. Secretary for Ireland.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : If the hon. and learned Gentleman wants to know who were the hon. Members that came to me, he can no doubt find out by inquiring among his friends. With regard to the question as to whether I was asked to support the re-insertion of the clause as it originally stood, or as amended by my right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland, I apprehend that no man could have reasonably asked me to support that which I had originally opposed. I have supported the Amendments of my right hon. Friend, and no man could expect me to support the re-insertion of a clause without those alterations in it to the introduction of which I was a consenting party.
 MR. DISRAELI : I wish, Sir, to call attention to what seems to me the very lamentable fact, that the business of the House of Commons appears every now and then to be transacted elsewhere than in the House of Commons. I have noticed
 835 quasi quasi 836
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the term  quasi
 MR. WHITESIDE : Sir, it was a saying of Rochefoucault, that in serious affairs he did not like a joke. Now, as this is a matter of some small consequence, I think the remarks with which the noble
 837 838
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli), remarked that it was unfortunate that a dispute of this kind should generally have reference to Ireland. Sir, I think it is also deeply to be regretted that when Irish Members take a course with regard to a measure, which is constantly taken by English and Scotch members—namely, that of waiting by deputation upon any Minister of the Crown, who may be charged with that measure—I say, it is deeply to be regretted that in such a case some other Irish Member always gets up in this House and charges his fellow-countrymen with base and dishonourable conduct. That is the opinion which seems to be entertained by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Enniskillen (Mr. Whiteside), of those of his countrymen who waited upon the noble Lord. He insinuates that they stipulated for a consideration in return for the promise they obtained. Now, I must leave this to be settled between the hon. and learned Gentleman and his countrymen, who, at least, had the right and the title
 839 840 pro formâ, pro formâ pro formâ
 MR. BRADY  said, he had not formed one of the deputation who had waited upon the noble Lord at the head of the Government, but as he had been instrumental in forming the deputation, he thought he could throw some light upon the reason why it had been formed. It had been communicated to him by an influential Irish Member who sat upon the Opposition benches, that many Members upon that side of the House would support the retrospective clause as amended in Committee, if the Government would bring it forward again. [ Cries of
 MR. NAPIER  said, the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department had stated, that he (Mr. Napier) and his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Enniskillen had given their consent to an illusory proceeding in having a  pro formâ 841
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, that though he could not see any impropriety in a deputation waiting upon the Government upon any subject whatever, he had not formed part of the deputation which had been referred to by the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Malins) because the object which that deputation had in view was one with which he did not concur.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he felt called upon to defend the propriety of the course adopted by the Irish Members in waiting upon the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown, in order to induce him to consent to the reintroduction of the 14th clause. He had always endeavoured to avoid getting into any sort of row, whether English, Irish, or Scotch, and he had certainly not expected to see the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire take part in one. He thought that the language used by the right hon. Gentleman had been unbecoming his position, and that it was derogatory to the character of Gentlemen who were fully his equals in position and in
 842 843
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he could hardly answer the question of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, unless it were made somewhat more specific. He could not say what might, or might not, have passed in the smoking room or dining-room of the House. He generally dined alone. He might have been spoken to in the dining-room by Members who sat on both sides of the House, but he hoped the hon. Gentleman did not suppose for a moment that he was likely to restrict the polite and gentleman-like intercourse that
 844
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he was quite satisfied to accept the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman. The right hon. Gentleman was so habituated to impute motives to the Irish Members, that he was, perhaps, unconscious of it; but he was, nevertheless, satisfied with his explanation.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he should like to know who deputed those eighteen gentlemen to go to the Minister as the representatives of all Ireland? He
 845
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, the Bill he had quoted from was the Bill introduced by the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin in 1852.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he wished to state that no formal communication was made to him of the intention to have an interview with the Premier. He and the hon. Gentleman near him did disapprove of the deputation
 846
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that before the hon. Baronet the Member for Hertfordshire's notice of Motion had been given, he was told by a Member of that House that a communication had been addressed to him by two supporters of the right hon. Gentleman opposite who had taken an active part in the Bill, to the effect that they regretted the rejection of the 14th clause; that they would be glad if the Government would propose its re-insertion; and that many Gentlemen upon the Opposition side would support such a proposition. He was asked what course the Government would take. He replied that he was not authorised to give a decided answer, but his conviction was that the Government would
 847
 MR. CAIRNS  said, the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had thrown a new light upon the discussion. It appeared that previous to the notice of the hon. Member for Hertfordshire the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) announced the course he intended to take. Perhaps, then, the right hon. Gentleman would be good enough to explain why, after the hon. Member for Hertfordshire's Motion, it was found necessary that the deputation should take place?
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he had not said that an announcement had been made to the Irish Members. One Gentleman had come to him, and he had communicated with two Gentlemen opposite whom he now saw in their places, but who seemed ashamed of the part they had taken in the transaction.
 MR. MALINS  said, that, after a subject had been fully discussed and decided by a large majority of the House, he did not think it was a usual or a proper course for a few hon. Gentlemen to wait upon the head of the Government in order to endeavour to get that decision rescinded. He had put this question as one affecting, not the honour of individuals, but the honour of the Government; and he felt satisfied
 848
 MR. MACMAHON  said, he wished to state, on the behalf of himself and the Friends he usually acted with, that when they had first heard the deputation mentioned they had, on the first blush of the matter, declared that they could have nothing to do with such a transaction. [ Cries of
 MR. GUINNESS  said, he would submit to the Committee that they ought not to be hurried in their deliberations on a question of the present importance, but that they ought to be afforded an opportunity to discuss it fully and fairly. He rose to call attention to the attempt which had been made by the Secretary of State for the Home Department in the early part of the evening to divert the attention of the House from the subject which engrossed it, by alluding to deputations which he said had been received by Lord Derby's Government at improper crises. He (Mr. Guinness) pronounced it unconstitutional in the highest degree, after a clause had been fully discussed and negatived by a large majority, for a deputation to wait upon the Prime Minister, at a crisis like the present, to endeavour to get him to rescind the decision of the House; such a proceeding was not only disgraceful but disgusting, and he could not help thinking that the Minister should have answered that deputation by refusing to give consideration to their proposition.
 MR. JOHN SADLEIR  said, that he had formed one of the body of Irish Members that had waited upon the Minister. Nothing could be more contrary to the fact than to say that that was a deputation from any body whatever which had waited upon the Prime Minister. They represented no party but themselves, and were influenced only by a wish to have restored to the Bill a clause which they considered of the utmost importance to the interests of Ireland. The hon. Member who had last spoken had, in his amiable impetuosity, used language which he (Mr. Sadleir) was certain could not be endorsed by the Gentlemen by whom the hon. Member was surrounded.
 MR. D. O'CONNELL  said, he thought that the hon. Member for Barnstaple (Mr. Guinness) was out of order when he used the words "disgraceful and disgusting;"
 849
 MR. DUNCAN  said that, as Dundee had been mentioned, he would take that opportunity to reply to the remark made by the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston), as to a "pressure" having been used to cause hon. Members to alter their opinions. He had not received one letter from his constituents on the subject, and had that morning presented a petition from the town-council of Dundee, against the Bill. Yet he had, with the exception of an Amendment proposed by the right hon. and learned Lord, supported the Bill in all its stages. It would be seen, therefore, that the "pressure" which had been brought to bear on himself had been very slight, and he hoped that the "pressure" which would shortly be brought to bear on the noble Lord would be equally as light.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he regretted exceedingly if he had said anything disrespectful to the hon. Member, for such was not his intention. The hon. Member had told him that he was pressed by his constituents, and he (Mr. Kinnaird) had said he would oppose him. What he said he had said jocularly, and he was quite surprised the hon. Gentleman should have taken it so seriously.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, the object of the Amendment was to reverse two former decisions of the House.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, he trusted that, after what had passed, there was no serious intention to proceed with the Bill, and that the admirable speech of the right hon. and learned Lord, which would have been more appropriate if delivered on a previous occasion, were the last notes of the dying swan. After the strong manifestation of the feeling of the House, he did not see how they could proceed with the measure, inasmuch as two hon. Gentlemen, the Members for Stafford and Worcester, had by accident gone into the lobby with the Government on the question of the third reading. The Bill was therefore virtually lost by a majority of one. It was a measure opposed to the wishes of the great majority of the people in Scotland, as proved by the immense majority of petitions against it, whereas, before the nature of the Bill was understood, the majority of petitions were in its favour. The right hon. and learned Lord Advocate had assumed, that those who were opposed to the Bill were opposed to education, but the contrary Was the fact, for it was because they were in favour of the extension of education that they voted against the measure, which would have the effect of not only increasing the expense, but of limiting education. Education, supported by the voluntary
 831 l. l. l. l.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, the clause was a most objectionable and arbitrary mode of legislating on a subject on which there should be nothing but harmony. He did not see how the noble Lord at the head of the Government, after what had passed, could persist in forcing such a Bill down the throats of the Scotch public. He hoped, however—though the Bill was, in his opinion, a dead Bill—that the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate would state to the House that he should not proceed further with it.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he had received a despatch on the 2nd of the present month with respect to steam communication with Australia to the effect mentioned by the right hon. Baronet; but the Governor, Sir William Denison, said that the project brought forward had not received the assent of the other colonies, and no company was willing to engage in so large an undertaking without being assured by something more than a simple Resolution, and that it would be necessary to have a law on the subject. With respect to the colonies of New South Wales, Van Diemen's Land, and New Zealand, no answer had been received; but with respect to Victoria there was a despatch expressing deep regret that, owing to the great pressure for steam transports for conveying troops and stores to the Crimea, the steam communication with the Australian colonies had been interrupted. The colonists of Victoria stated that they were ready to propose an expenditure of 50,000 l.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, I will take this opportunity to refer to a statement which was made in my absence by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli), or rather it was a question addressed to me by the right hon. Gentleman—whether or not I had obtained Her Majesty's consent to the statement I had made with respect to the proceedings of the Cabinet of which I am a Member? Now, Sir, what I had stated with regard to the Cabinet was either perfectly known, or might have been inferred, from the course of events which followed. Count Buol had thought proper to issue a circular, which appeared in the public papers, in which he refers to confidential communications with M. Drouyn de Lhuys and myself. I stated that those communications had been considered by Her Majesty's
 806
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, after what the hon. Baronet the Member for Radnorshire (Sir J. Walsh) has stated, I must say that nothing which I have said this evening is at all inconsistent with the answer which I gave upon a former occasion.
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  said, that as the Bill would probably not pass through another place, he would appeal to the noble Lord at the head of the Government to say whether he meant to go on with the Bill.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he would now move to leave out in page 7, lines 23 and 24, the words "in regard to his sufficiency for the office in respect of literature." It was his hope that the Government would not give up the Bill on account of the modifications it had received in its passage through the House. He believed that, notwithstanding he and others might have preferred it
 826
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  said, he had very carefully considered the provisions of the Bill, and had arrived at the conclusion that it was not likely to benefit his country or to promote concord among his countrymen. He did not mean to say that the parish clergymen of Scotland had not acted well in the position in which they had been placed, but he thought one objectionable feature of the Bill was, that it would leave them the same monopoly of parochial education which they now possessed. The Bill would establish a system of education which could only be accepted by the Free Church and the Established Church, and which would be rejected by the religious body with which he was connected. He had voted against the third reading of the Bill, and if an opportunity were presented he would record his vote against its passing. He hoped that, seeing the very small majority in favour of the Bill on the third reading—105 to 102—and that there was not the least chance of its passing in another place, the right hon. and learned Lord would let the Bill share the fate of some others, and withdraw it
 823
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he was decidedly opposed to the clause, on the ground of civil and religious liberty. His house was his castle, and policemen ought not to be allowed to intrude themselves into a man's private dwelling on all occasions as they did under the stringent provisions of the Smoke Prevention Act. The work ought to be done by officially appointed agents who really understood their business.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, it occurs to me that as the First Minister of the Crown has not thought fit to fix a day for the discussion of the Motion of my hon. Friend (Sir B. Lytton), it would have been more consistent if his noble colleague had not taken this opportunity to make a statement explanatory of the lengthened and matured narrative with
 807 808 809 810 811 Cries of 812
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that it had been coolly assumed that the clause would put down manufactures. Now, it certainly would have no such effect. It merely gave a power to two justices to compel manufacturers to use the best practical means for putting down nuisances. Every hon. Member ought to take a general view of the subject, and not to narrow his view of it according to the interests of his own constituents.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Gentleman if the copper works he had referred to were a nuisance injurious to the health of the neighbourhood, and if so, whether the owners had neglected to use every practicable means to abate it? Because, unless that were so, the provisions of the Bill would not apply.
 MR. COWAN  said, he concurred very much in the views of his hon. Friend who had last addressed them, although he had differed from him in the course he had taken, and had voted with the majority in favour of the third reading. If, however, the Motion had been "that the Bill do pass," he should certainly have felt inclined to vote in the negative. The reason for that was, that the various Amendments on the paper, and particularly that of the hon. and learned Member for Greenock, afforded him the hope that possibly the House might reverse the decision to which the Committee had come. There was a great deal of good in the Bill, but, in his opinion, it had been very much impaired in its progress through Committee. He regretted exceedingly the change which the Government had introduced some time ago, by which, as regarded the Roman Catholics and Episcopalians, the Bill had been made a denominational Bill. The effect of such an alteration would be to confuse the system of education in Scotland, and to make it no longer thoroughly national. Now, according to his judgment, a system of education ought to be either national or denominational—not mixed; and he could not, therefore, conceive anything more prejudicial than such a continuance
 821
 MR. COWAN  said, he wished to refer to the vote he had given on a former occasion, for he thought a great mistake had been made in the Bill by so largely increasing the salary of schoolmasters, without taking measures to increase their qualifications. The system of Government certificates might have been advantageously introduced. He should have moved an Amendment to that effect, but for an intimation from the Lord Advocate that he should consider it a hostile step. He hoped the House would agree to the Amendment, and he should be then able to vote for its final stage.
 SIR BULWER LYTTON : Sir, the noble Lord has said that my right hon. Friend (Mr. Disraeli) has made "much ado about nothing." I am not surprised to hear such an observation from the noble Lord, for, if I am not much mistaken, in point of chronological order "Much Ado about Nothing" comes just after "the Comedy of Errors." As to the production of the papers, I do not think anything they contain can in any way enlighten the House upon the question it is my intention to submit to it. I am glad, however, that hon. Members will have an opportunity of looking into them before
 815
 SIR BULWER LYTTON : Then I have nothing further to say, except that I accept the day which the noble Lord has proposed.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he could not avoid expressing his surprise that some of his hon. Friends who had joined him in endeavouring to improve the measure had, now that it had reached its last stage, turned their backs upon it altogether. He would ask those hon. Gentlemen whether they were prepared to oppose all progress on such an important subject because they could not obtain everything they desired? He thought the Bill contained some very beneficial provisions, and, regarding it as an instalment, he considered that it should be supported by all who were anxious to promote education. He had entertained some objection to those compulsory powers which would be conferred by the Bill; but, on consideration, he thought that, as great necessity existed for extending the means of education in Scotland, perhaps the wisest course would be, in the first instance, to give those compulsory powers. Last year there was a unanimous expression of regret in Scotland that the Bill had not passed, and there was a hope that a similar measure would be passed during the present Session; and he did not hear that any change of opinion had taken place on the subject.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he hoped that his hon. Friend would not press his Amendment, though, if he went to a division, he (Mr. Craufurd) should feel bound to vote in favour of it. He would suggest to the right hon. and learned Lord that, as Dundee had now repudiated his measure, he might get out of the present difficulty, by inserting "Aberdeen" instead of "Dundee" in the clause.
 MR. HUTCHINS  said, he could not tell. Those were questions that could only be determined after much litigation.
 MR. HUTCHINS  said, he strongly objected to the retention of the words "populous districts." The copper works in the neighbourhood of Swansea, for instance, were neither a city nor a town; but they were certainly a populous district, for hundreds of persons had come to live in their neighbourhood; and upon the continuance of those works depended the welfare of the whole population of Glamorganshire. Those works, however, would fall within the operation of the clause.
 MR. HUTCHINS  said, he thought the arguments of the hon. Member (Mr. Davies) were conclusive against the retention of the words "populous districts," for they might, on the hon. Gentleman's own showing, lead to much litigation and annoyance.
 MR. WINN KNIGHT  said, he objected to the addition on the ground that "populous districts" was a very uncertain phrase.
 MR. WINN KNIGHT  said, he did not consider the clause necessary, as the parties whom it would affect would still remain liable to an indictment at common law for any nuisance they might commit. He also objected to it, because it made it compulsory on the local authorities to proceed against any party who should be certified to have caused any effluvia injurious to health. The effect would be to drive many of our most necessary manufactures out of the country. He wished to secure some place in which these certainly offensive, but still necessary trades might be carried on. He would, therefore, beg to propose an Amendment to that effect.
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, he fully concurred in the Amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for West Worcestershire, and in doing so could bear testimony to the extreme fairness and candour with which the right hon. President of the Board of Health had met every proposal for amending the measures he had introduced. Trade nuisances might be divided into three classes. The first included cases in which the nuisance was brought for the first time into a neighbourhood; and under those circumstances it could at once be put down. The second class referred to places which they might almost say were consecrated to bad smells. Now, it was not lawful to bring even there a fresh smell, but if the new manufacture were of the same description as those already carried on in the neighbourhood it could not be put down. The third class related to cases where an offensive trade had originally been established at a distance from any house or road, but where the district had afterwards become inhabited. With respect to cases like those it had been held over and over again that if persons who complained had come to the nuisance and not the nuisance to them, they had no remedy. Now, he understood that what his hon. Friend meant was to save the rights of persons who conducted trades that fell within the last category. He believed that the right hon. Baronet the President of the Board of Works was afraid that the word "town" would not include such places as Chelsea or Hammersmith, but the right hon. Gentleman was in error, for there had been several decisions in which the word had been interpreted in its popular sense. He should, however, recommend his hon. Friend to add to his proviso the words "or populous districts."
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he must enter his final protest against the Bill, and he also must deny that any good could ever result from legislative interference in a subject which ought to be left to the voluntary benevolence of the people.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he must again protest against proceeding with a Bill, the third reading of which had been carried by so narrow a majority as three, and to which he was justified in saying the popular feeling of Scotland was opposed. He would appeal to the good sense of the Government, whether it was wise under the circumstances and at a time when a vital question involving the fate of the Ministry was impending, to cast the firebrand of religious bigotry amongst the people of Scotland, which the Bill now before them would have the effect of doing? It was a Bill for benefiting one or two denominations at the expense of all others. Generally speaking, the people of Scotland were opposed to all State interference and State assistance in matters of religion and education, and would not accept it. The United Presbyterians would not touch the State money for such purposes, and the result would be, that one or two denominations, and those alone, would receive assistance under the Bill.
 MR. THOMPSON  said, he would now move to leave out the word "Perth" in Clauses 13 and 15, and to substitute the word "Aberdeen." He must deprecate the language of the hon. Member for Perth (Mr. Kinnaird) in opposing his proposition on a former occasion, as uncourteous and inconsiderate, and thought that hon. Member would have acted more wisely if he had not made statements on the subject without foundation. Aberdeen had always held the place next in education after Edinburgh and Glasgow in Scotland; and he (Mr. Thompson) thought the advice of the right hon. and learned Member for Bute (Mr. S. Wortley) to reverse the terms of the Bill, and give the Member to the county of Perth and to the city of Aberdeen,
 825
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, it was the law of Scotland, as of every other country, that, if any one neglected a statutory duty, he could be punished; but in the present case it was most material that the action of the Bill should not suffer in the event of persons refusing to obey the statute. A person, for example, might illegally decline to call a meeting, and it was right, therefore, that the Court of Session, being satisfied upon the point, should have power to authorise the Board to call such a meeting.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, the clause was necessary for the due enforcement of the law. It was absolutely necessary that such a power should be vested in the Court of Session in cases where a party who was bound to perform certain functions or do certain acts wilfully neglected to do so, and it was only in such cases that it was to be exercised.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he would now move the following additional clause:—
 "If any person or persons shall wilfully refuse to perform any duty incumbent on him or them under this Act, it shall be in the power of the General Board to apply by summary petition to the Court of Session, setting forth such refusal; and it shall be in the power of the Court, on considering the same, after such intimation and service as they may think necessary, to authorise the Board to perform or to provide for the performance of such duty in such way and manner as the Court may direct; provided always, that nothing herein contained shall be construed to limit any remedy at law which any party might have in respect of such refusal."
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he would now propose the addition of a clause, providing that—
 "In parishes in which schools have been established under the third recited Act it shall be lawful to the Committee of Privy Council to contribute such sum to the salary of the schoolmaster of every such school as will, in addition to the sum provided under the said Act, raise the same to a sum not less than 20 l. l.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : Not by paying them out of the public purse, but by setting up free schools under the present Bill.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that whatever might be the future prospects of the Bill, he was convinced that a great advance had been made in the solution of the difficult question of education in Scotland, for they had done what had never been done before—read an education Bill a third time—and he was not without hope, notwithstanding the narrow division upon the Bill that evening, that it would become the law of the land. He would take that opportunity of warning hon. Members opposite of the danger which arose from the circumstance that in different parts of the kingdom generations were growing up without knowledge; that we were allowing the nurseries of crime to increase; and that, while hon. Members in that House were discussing these miserable abstract questions, the mischief was being done, day by day, and year by year. By giving such prominence to these abstract questions, hon. Members opposite were raising insurmountable barriers, not in the way of the Bill now before them, but of every educational system that could be devised. Objections had been made to continuing the Privy Council grants to Catholics. But he believed that it was impossible to have a system which would embrace Catholics and Episcopalians. What he wanted was, to see a system by which
 827 828 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 829
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, any person enjoined by statute to do a particular duty could, by the law of England and Ireland, be compelled to discharge the duty if he neglected it; but by the proposed clause, the Court of Session was to provide
 824
 MR. J. L. RICARDO : I want to know
 805 l. l.
 MR. ROEBUCK : Sir, the House will probably consider that I ought to make some statement after the appeal which has been made to me. I believe that the question about to be proposed by the hon. Baronet the Member for Hertfordshire is really one of the most important that can be submitted to the House. I think that the two questions ought not to be before the House at the same time; and, therefore, if the debate should be adjourned on Monday I shall accede to the wish of the House, and postpone the Motion of which I have given notice. I have only one object in view, and I believe that I shall
 818
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he did not know what was the meaning of the words "populous districts." They had no legal signification, and he was afraid that their adoption would lead to endless litigation and disputes.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he should support the proviso. The Bill having since its introduction taken the form of a measure for the suppression of those nuisances only which were injurious to health, it would be but wise and fair to make a distinction between places where large numbers of persons were congregated together, and districts inhabited by a scanty and a scattered population.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he should support the clause, as it gave the parties indicted the opportunity of showing that they had used all practical means to put down the nuisance, and were unable to do so—a right which they did not enjoy under the present law. In so far, the clause was a remedial measure; it directly protected trade against the common law.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought the clause unnecessary. The police were bound to give all the aid they could within the limits of their own proper functions—such as that of quelling mobs, and of preventing persons from breaking windows. He thought that if the police were to be considered specially liable to be called upon to enforce the provisions of the Act, it would, in the first place, have a tendency to divert their attention from their more immediate and proper duties, and would, at the same time, create a feeling against them, and would lead to their being employed in a species of  espionage
 MR. HEYWORTH  said, he was of opinion that a particular mode of legislation could never answer any good purpose. At the same time, while they were seeking to preserve the health of the public, they ought not to forget that there were vast multitudes of the population who were dependent for their means of livelihood on those establishments which it was now sought to control by Act of Parliament.
 MR. HEYWORTH  said, he would refer hon. Members to the removal of Muspratt's chemical works from Liverpool, and afterwards from Newton, by proceedings at law, and he considered those cases were sufficient to meet any case of nuisance.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, that the health of Swansea was above the average. Considering the immense amount of capital invested, and the hundreds of thousands who gained their bread by those and similar works (for all the metal trades were equally concerned), the House were bound to protect the owners from annoyance on the part of persons in the neighbourhood who complained of injury to their gardens.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, that nothing was wanted to neutralise the effects of copper smoke but plenty of water. The remedy might, no doubt, be easily applied to one establishment; but the river at Swansea would be wholly inadequate if it were attempted to be extended to the entire district. The cattle referred to had not been injured by the direct effect of the works upon the atmosphere, but by the dew becoming impregnated with sulphuric acid falling upon the herbage, and if they pleased, poisoning it. He only knew that he could keep his horses in much better condition at Swansea than in London.
 MR. KENDALL  said, he should move its omission. He was of opinion that the clause, if adopted, would either compel the total sacrifice of large manufacturing property, or would seriously depreciate its value. Those manufacturers engaged in the smelting trade would be placed at the mercy of a couple of medical men—perhaps troublesome medical men, for there were such at home as well as abroad. The expenses thus imposed upon the manufacturers would be enough to swallow up all their profits; and the result would be to lower the wages of every miner in Cornwall.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, the clause was very objectionable in itself, and so was the principle of bringing up so many additional clauses to a Bill at that late stage. The Bill was so vaguely worded, that it was found requisite to put the powers of Parliament into the hands of the Court of Session in Scotland. That was the object of the clause, and he should vote against it, therefore, if the clause went to a division.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he thought that the right hon. and learned Lord had taken a strange opportunity, upon an Amendment, to make a speech upon the whole principle of the Bill, assuming, at the same time, that those who voted against the Bill were not in favour of public education. Every one, he trusted, was in favour of education, but every one did not think that the present Bill would effect the object well. The right hon. and learned Lord said, on a former occasion, that he meant to absorb the whole of the private schools.
 MR. BLACKBURN : As the proportion of children now educated in Scotland was one in seven, and as it was intended to bring that down to one in five, with a population of 600,000 children, and assuming that one schoolmaster could not attend to more than 100 pupils, there would necessarily be 6,000 schools. That was one way of putting it, but, taking the number of schools at present at 5,240, it was not unreasonable to suppose the number would be increased to 6,000; and thus, by another process, they arrived at the same result. It was agreed that the cost would be 35 l. l. l. l. l. 830 l. l. l.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, the Bill was most carelessly drawn. As an instance, he would mention that the Board were to
 832
 MR. COBDEN : I wish, Sir, to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government. My hon. Friend the Member for Stoke-on-Trent (Mr. J. L. Ricardo) asked the noble Lord the other day whether he was prepared to lay upon the table the terms of the convention for guaranteeing a loan to the Turkish Government. I understood the noble Lord to say the convention was not concluded. Last week a message was sent by the French Government to the Chamber of Deputies of that country, giving full details of the convention entered into between England, France, and Turkey for the guarantee of a loan of 5,000,000 l.
 MR. COBDEN : Will the noble Lord say when the ratifications will be exchanged, and when we shall be placed in the same position as the Assembly of France?
 MR. COBDEN : I observe it stated in the French account that the convention was concluded on the 27th of last month. Is that so? The words of the French Government are—" convention conclue.
 MR. BARROW  said, he objected to the clause, on the ground that it would in effect carry every question arising under it to the superior Courts, and involve the parties in expensive litigation.
 MR. BAXTER  said, he cordially seconded the Amendment, for he was satisfied that the Bill would be hailed by the people of Scotland as an instalment of good, and as a step in the right direction. He certainly objected to some of the details, but he was not one of those who, because they could not get all they wished, were determined to reject all the advantages that were offered.
 MR. W. EWART  said, he had felt very strongly disposed to join the hon. Member for Dundee (Mr. Duncan) in his opposition to the Bill, but he thought it more expedient and more just to give it the last chance, and to see what became of the Amendments upon the notice paper. He gave the Lord Advocate full credit for the motives which had induced him to bring forward the measure, but he thought some further time ought to be afforded to the people of Scotland, who were much divided in opinion on the subject, for considering its provisions. If the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Greenock, the object of which was to replace
 822
 MR. W. LOCKHART  said, that the representatives of many of the largest towns in Scotland who were originally in favour of the Bill, in consequence of the change in the public mind of that country
 820
 MR. ELIOTT LOCKHART  said, he could not conceive, after the division of that night, that the Bill would be pressed further. It would be his duty still to give the measure all the opposition in his power.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the clause would give a large taxing power to the Board over the people of Scotland.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that the effect of withdrawing the clause would be, that all persons engaged in the trades and manufactures specified in the clause would be obliged to be proceeded against by indictment. The clause was a mitigating clause, because it allowed the parties to be proceeded against before two justices. He had seen many of the persons who were most nearly interested in that part of the Bill, and they all urged him to press the clause, considering it to be one greatly in their favour, because it would give them an opportunity of mitigating the nuisance by using the best means in their power, and if they should fail to do so, they would then, only in the last event, be prosecuted by the common law.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he had been induced to adopt the clause from having received a return from Dublin showing the beneficial services rendered by the police of the city of Dublin in suppressing nuisances that were injurious to health. He thought if the services of the police were so conspicuous in the case of the city of Dublin, a similar plan could not fail to work beneficially here.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he must remark that in discussing the earlier part of the Bill a great deal was said about the attention which ought to be given to the condition of the poor; but the clauses affecting their condition were nevertheless very speedily passed. They happened now, however, to be discussing clauses which had nothing to do with the poor, and now there seemed to be great difficulty in proceeding with the measure. If the Committee were really merely there to represent the gas companies, the water companies, and the great manufacturing
 800
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he had no wish to drive the trades referred to by the clause out of the country, but he was desirous that where nuisances existed the local authorities should have the power to interfere, and if the party complained against preferred having the question decided by a superior tribunal, instead of by two justices, the next clause would give him the power to put an end to the jurisdiction of the justices on entering into his recognisance to bring the matter before a superior tribunal. He approved the words "populous districts" as affording a definition of the word "town," and he thought he should be doing right in assenting to the proviso, with those words added to it.
 SIR GEORGE TYLER  said, he did not think that any hon. Members were open to the taunt of the right hon. Baronet, that they were seeking to Legislate for the rich at the expense of the poor.
 SIR JAMES ANDERSON  said, he had very cordially supported the Bill hitherto, in the hope that some of the clauses which he thought objectionable would be expunged. He was connected with the United Presbyterian Church, a great majority of whom had supported the measure as he had done, approving of its principle, though they objected strongly to the religious element infused into it, and held that the State, while it might beneficially legislate for the education of the people, had no right to interfere with the teaching of religion. He admired the benevolent feelings by which the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate had been actuated in bringing forward the Bill; but, at the same time, he was very sorry to have come to the conclusion that night, that he had entirely failed in carrying out his object, and that if the measure passed it would be a bone of contention to the people of Scotland, and would not promote the cause of education there. He had, therefore, been obliged, though with great reluctance, to record his vote against the third reading.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he must ask the indulgence of the House while he made one effort more to defeat a measure, the passing of which he should much deplore. The preamble of the Bill, in the first place, cast a slur upon the Church of Scotland, into whose charge the schools had been committed, which drew from its members a strenuous opposition to the Bill. It was to the efforts of the Church in Scotland that the successful education of the people was owing, and its members disapproved the mode of government by a central Board in Edinburgh, the religious qualifications of the members of which were not tested. If they could secure a certainty that the schools would be conducted upon Presbyterian principles, he might feel justified in withdrawing his opposition; but the most important powers were given to the Board—the power of examining schoolmasters, of deprivation and censure, of forcing the ratepayers to erect schools, and of taxing them for their support. Such powers ought not to be given to a Board when there was no security that it would be composed of members belonging to the Church. He should therefore move, as an Amendment, that the Bill be read a third time that day three months.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies whether he had received a copy of the circular despatch from Governor
 803 l. l.
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, he was anxious that the subject should not drop before the attention of the House was called to the striking discrepancy that existed between the statement of the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) that evening, and that which he had made on a former occasion. In describing the substance of Count Buol's circular, he (Sir J. Walsh) had at that time referred to the fact that Count Buol stated that he was prepared to submit an  ultimatum ultimatum casus belli 816 817
 MR. HUTT  said, he would beg to inquire of the Government whether the circular of Count Buol was among the papers to be laid on the table of the House?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I do not think that that circular is in the possession of Her Majesty's Government.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : It was signed by the Plenipotentiaries on that day.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : It is a joint guarantee for the whole.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON,  having brought up the papers respecting the Austrian proposals, said: These are papers, Sir, connected with the late negotiations at Vienna, and I maybe allowed, perhaps, to take this opportunity, though not very strictly in order, of adverting to the notice which stands in the name of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) for this evening, that he will move that the orders tomorrow be postponed for the purpose of enabling the hon. Baronet (Sir B. Lytton) to bring on his Motion. I wish to state, for the convenience of the House, that to that Motion Her Majesty's Government feel it their duty to object, and for this reason—these papers will not be in the hands of Members until to-morrow, and we think it not fair or right that the House should come to discuss the question so early as to-morrow, when Members will not have had opportunity or time to read the papers or inform themselves of their contents. Beyond to-morrow we shall offer no impediment to any arrangement which the hon. Baronet may have made with regard to his Motion.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I have no objection.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Really, Sir, I must say I think the right hon. Gentleman has made "much ado about nothing." In the first place, with regard to what passed upon a former occasion, I am not aware that my hon. Friend fixed the Committee of Supply to take place on Friday otherwise than in the way in which the Committee of Supply is always postponed, as a matter of course, from one Supply day to another. But this I will say, that if I had fixed the Committee of Supply for Friday, seeing the condition in which the House is placed with regard to the Motion of the hon. Baronet (Sir B. Lytton) seeing that the papers, with all the efforts that have been made to expedite them, could not be laid upon the table till to-night, and that they would not be in the hands of hon. Members till to-morrow, I should have pursued in regard to the Committee of Supply the same course which I announced my intention of pursuing with regard to the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman—namely, I should have postponed the Committee of Supply, as I intended to oppose the Motion, for the
 813 totum 814
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : We have taken measures to exchange ratifications at the earliest possible moment. The ratifications have been sent out to Constantinople, to be exchanged there with the ratifications of the Turkish Government, and by that means time will be saved of sending here and to Paris the ratifications of the Turkish Government. I am not able, of course, to state the day, but it will be done as soon as possible. The convention will require the sanction of Parliament before it has force.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The hon. Member misunderstood my answer. I did not say the treaty was not concluded. I said it had been concluded, but the ratifications were not exchanged. Until the ratifications are exchanged it is not a binding treaty on all parties. I stated, also, it was a joint guarantee for a loan of 5,000,000 l.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he certainly intended to take the sense of the House upon the question of passing the Bill, as it had been very deliberately considered, and, in his opinion, it was a very good measure. The opinion he had expressed upon its merits had not been shaken by the sudden conversion of some of the hon. Gentlemen near him at the last stage of its progress. He knew that a pressure was sometimes put upon hon. Members, but, although that might be a sufficient reason for those hon. Members to defer to the opinions of the persons who had sent them to that House, it was no reason for others who did not happen to be exposed to the same pressure to alter the opinions they had formed.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It is quite true, Sir, that when the last loan was contracted Her Majesty's Government did give an engagement that they would not raise, by way of loan, any further sum until all the instalments of the loan for 16,000,000 l.
 COLONEL KNOX  said, he begged to ask the hon. Under Secretary for War whether his attention had been called to a paragraph in  The Times The Times "Great discontent prevails among the invalids from the Crimea now in quarters at the Casemate, Barracks, Chatham, against the Government for not paying their arrears; some of them have not been paid since the 31st of August last; and a number of the men, since they came home, have been discharged without receiving the money due to them. The invalids now remaining feel that they will be treated in the same way, although they have made frequent applications to the officials of the invalid depôt. They are told that the returns from their regiments have not
 853 l.
 COLONEL KNOX  said, he wished to know whether any steps had been taken to forward to this country the pay lists of the army?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, in answer to the question put to me by the right hon. Baronet, I beg to state that it will be necessary for a Supplementary Estimate for the Naval Department to be laid before the House before the end of the Session. It appears that on comparing the expenditure of the past quarter with the Vote for the entire year which has been agreed to by the House, there has been a considerable excess, and I apprehend that if the expenditure for the three remaining quarters shall exceed the Estimate as much as it has done in the past quarter, it will be necessary to bring in a Supplementary Estimate for a considerable amount to meet the excess. It will also probably be necessary to present a Supplementary Estimate for the War Department; and if those Estimates should be agreed to by the House, it will then become necessary
 854
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he had given notice of his intention to move the omission of Clause 15; but in case it should be adopted, he would move to add the proviso of which he had given notice. The clause was in the Bill when it went before the Select Committee, and the noble Lord himself (Lord Palmerston), then a Member of the Committee, moved the rejection of such clause, and the cogent reasons which he gave for such rejection were held to be so good that the clause was struck out by the Committee. Now, he asked the noble Lord, upon the ground of that consistency which he said last night would induce him to support the reintroduction of the 14th clause into the Bill, to support him in his Motion for the rejection of the 15th clause. The clause in effect gave power to the tenant to hold possession of the land after his tenancy had expired, in spite of his landlord, until his claim for compensation was satisfied. Now that, he submitted, was the first step to fixity of tenure in favour of the tenant. If the noble Lord did not consent to the omission of the clause he would move the following proviso—
 "Provided always, that it shall not be lawful for any such defendant, during the time for which the execution of any such writ shall have been so
 859
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he wished to point out to the hon. and learned Gentleman that he was not quite correct in his statement with regard to the clause, for it had never been before the Select Committee at all. It was introduced into the Bill by the right hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin in consequence of a proviso which that right hon. and learned Gentleman had made, and by means of which proviso he had succeeded in defeating a Motion which he (Mr. Scully) had brought forward for the express purpose of placing the tenant in certain cases in the position of a species of mortgagee.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he had heard from the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, something which he did not know before. There certainly was a clause of the same kind as the present introduced by him (Mr. Napier) into the Leasing Powers Bill, which was struck out by the Select Committee at the instance of the noble Lord at the head of the Government. He (Mr. Napier) concurred in the view taken of it by the noble Lord, and he consented to its omission. There was some such clause in the Tenants' Compensation Bill, which, for the same reasons, was struck out. He would support the Motion for the omission of the clause.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he had not a good recollection of what had passed when the Bill was before the Select Committee. It was possible that he might have taken the course attributed to him by the right hon. and learned Gentleman. But if he did so, he felt that his better judgment urged him to think row that that was a proper arrangement which the clause proposed. He thought it would not be fair or just, if the tenant were to obtain compensation, that he should be turned out of occupation before he obtained such compensation for his improvements. He thought that the tenant should be allowed to remain in occupation until that compensation was given to him. As well as he recollected, the objection he took to the clause referred to before the Select Committee was, that that clause proposed to give extended occupation in lieu of his claim for compensation.
 MR. NAPIER  said, that the clause rejected by the Select Committee at the instance of the noble Lord, was in words precisely the same as the present.
 MR. KEOGH  said, it was in his power to prove the incorrectness of the observation of the right hon. and learned Gentleman. He had the identical clause before him which had been originally framed by the right hon. and learned Gentleman, and it exactly bore out the statement of the noble Lord—namely, that the noble Lord's objection to it was that it provided that the tenant was to remain in occupation for what was termed a compensating period of occupation. [Mr. NAPIER: But there were two clauses.] He was talking of the clause in the right hon. and learned Gentleman's Tenants' Compensation Bill, as it had been originally introduced by him. The original clause of the right hon. and learned Gentleman bore the construction which the noble Lord had put upon it.
 MR. NAPIER  said, that his Tenants' Compensation Bill was rejected in the gross. It was afterwards refashioned when it came again before the House. The Leasing Powers Bill, however, was considered by the Select Committee clause by clause; and it contained a similar clause to that now under consideration, which was rejected.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, he would submit that the Committee had better discuss the merits of the proviso before them, rather than to consider what had passed before the Select Committee upon another Bill.
 MR. MALINS  said, he quite concurred with the hon. Gentleman. This should not be regarded as an historical question, but they should consider it as a question of principle. He could only say, if such a clause had been introduced by the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Napier), or any other hon. Gentleman, they had been making themselves parties to a proposed infringement of the rights of property in a most unprecedented way. The present clause proposed an entirely new principle—namely, that if the tenant at the expiration of his lease, notwithstanding his landlord had recovered by ejectment, and had obtained judgment, though not execution, made any claim for compensation, he might still retain possession until his claim was settled. Under the clause there might be further proceedings carried on in the shape of conflicting affidavits
 861
 MR. CAIRNS  said he wished to call attention to the absurdity of assenting to the clause now before the Committee. By the 10th clause the tenant was not allowed to establish his claim until he was put out of possession; but by the 15th clause it appeared that he was not to be put out of possession until he established his claim. There was another inconsistency in the Bill—namely, a landlord proceeds to evict his tenant; the tenant says he has a money claim against him for improvements. The claim is a personal one. Well, the landlord dies; and his son comes into possession of the property. By such a measure they were going to keep the son out of his own estate, in order to give the tenant security for a debt which was not due from the son or heir but from another. Now, that was the most monstrous proposition he had ever heard made in or out of Parliament.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he was afraid that they were discussing a question which did not then properly arise, instead of the proviso proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Horsham (Mr. S. Fitzgerald). He must avow himself to be in favour of the clause, but he did not think it convenient that it should be then discussed. He was also in favour of the proviso pro-
 862
 MR. KEOGH  said, he was not aware of any opposition to the proviso. If he were to offer an opinion, he would say he thought it wholly unnecessary. If, however, the proviso tended to make the meaning of the clause clearer, he had no objection to it.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, the clause proposed to give compensation to the outgoing tenant, but required the tenant to bring his action within two years after the expiration of his tenancy. He therefore begged to propose as an Amendment, that the tenant should bring his action within one year instead of two; and he intended further to propose that the tenant, on giving up possession, should fairly state to the landlord any claim that he might have to make.
 MR. MACMAHON  said, the hon. and learned Member must be well aware that under the existing law the tenant had six years to make a claim against the landlord for crops he had left standing. There was no reason, he considered, for limiting that right under the present Bill.
 Mr. KEOGH  said, that the Government did not intend to adopt the Amendment of the hon. and learned Gentleman. He understood him to assent to the principle of the clause, and if the right of the tenant was once admitted he did not see any good grounds for limiting the time for making the claim.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, he was surprised that Irish landlords should be found to object to the clause. The intention of the clause was, that the outgoing tenant should not exhaust the land before he quitted it, and the clause was, in fact, as much a landlord's as a tenant's clause.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he did not think the difference between one and two years a matter of such importance as to justify him in dividing the Committee upon it.
 COLONEL KNOX  said, he would beg, before the noble Lord replied to the question just put, to direct his attention to the circumstance that although a great number of men, including a detachment of the Guards, as well as militia, were now assembled at Aldershot, some of them for two months, others for one, the Board of Ordnance had not as yet settled upon a piece of ground for the purposes of ball practice. Many of these men might be called upon at a moment's notice to leave for service in the Crimea, and yet up to that moment they had had no opportunity of exercising themselves in that practice for which the camp was mainly formed. He also wished to know whether the attention of Her Majesty's Government had been directed to the circumstance that many counties—and he referred especially to the Welsh counties—had not as yet furnished their quota to the militia, and whether any measures were in contemplation to provide against such shortcomings?
 MR. LLOYD DAVIES  said, the circumstance of recruits not having been so readily procured in the mining districts was owing to three facts. First, the efforts of the Peace Society in those localities; the high wages received there, and which it was not natural men could be expected to abandon for the miserable pittance offered by the Government as a bounty; and lastly, to the confusion with respect to the embodiment of the militia produced by what took place last year.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he considered the clause one of the most complicated and impracticable pieces of legislation that could be conceived. It would
 863
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, the hon. Baronet was mistaken as to the tenant-right of Surrey and Sussex. The English teuant-right was a custom established by mutual agreement between the landlord and tenant; and no such custom would have existed had not its benefit been the result of experience. The existence of that custom was a proof of its advantage. Such a custom never had existed in Ireland.
 MR. CORRY  said, he would propose to omit in line 27, the words "two years" and substitute "one year," which, he thought, was a sufficient period during which the tenant should be entitled to claim remuneration for the preparation of the land.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he considered that the tenant should only be allowed to make his claim for one year. Under the clause, as it at present stood, for the outgoing tenant would have the power of claiming of the tenant in possession compensation for two years' preparation of the land, which was most unjust, and it was impossible that such a claim could be rightly tested.
 MR. MACMAHON  said, he hoped that the Government would not accede to the Amendment. It was very desirable that the system of three or four course husbandry should be introduced more largely into Ireland, and the Bill as it stood would tend to promote that system, while the proposed Amendment would have the contrary effect.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that as the periods varied very much in which the full value of manuring the land could be derived, it was considered fair that the period of two years should be fixed, and he trusted that the right hon. Member would therefore not press his Amendment. Under the Bill
 864
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, if compensation were given for two years, the landlord would be laughed at for a fool by the tenant. The tenant ought to make the land, not the landlord, pay him.
 MR. HORSMAN  explained that reasonable compensation was only to be given, and that if any differences occurred the tenant would have the right of appeal to the sessions.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he must point out the absurdity of sending the tenant of a three acre field first to the assistant barrister, and next to the quarter sessions, in case he could not agree as to the compensation he was to receive from his landlord. Really for a statesman in the position of the right hon. Gentleman to display so much ignorance of Ireland and Irish questions, made him quite ashamed of the connection the right hon. Gentleman had with Irish affairs.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he wished now to propose the addition of the following proviso:—"Provided always that no such tenant shall be entitled so to recover, unless at or before the time of giving up possession, or within one week afterwards, he shall have served the landlord with a notice containing the particulars of his claim for such remuneration, unless it shall be established to the satisfaction of the Court before which such claim shall be heard that the landlord has waived the necessity of such notice." It appeared to him that unless the proviso which he wished to introduce were adopted, the landlord would be exposed to the greatest hardship. On the other hand, there would be no hardship on the tenant, as this was not a case in which he could be taken by surprise, and he was entitled to six months' notice. The best way of settling those matters was by equitable adjustment, one person coming on behalf of the landlord, and another on behalf of the tenant, but this could not be done if a period of two years were allowed to elapse. He was only anxious that the Bill should pass for the happiness and peace of Ireland, and he appealed to hon. Gentlemen to adopt the Amendment in justice to the landlord.
 MR. J. FITZGERALD  said, he thought that the proviso was unreasonable, because it required the tenant, who might be suddenly called upon to give up his possession, to know the law, and to serve the landlord with the "particulars of his claim" within a week. If the period proposed were within six months, instead of one week, he should not object to it. He was ready to consent to any reasonable term of notice, and would take care that nothing contained in the Bill should interfere with any agreement between the parties.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he would suggest that the period of notice should be three weeks or a month, so as to enable both parties to ascertain the correct value of the improvements.
 Mr. H. HERBERT  said, he thought the fairest period would be three months.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he would rather withdraw his Amendment than adopt three months, in the course of which time the entire condition and aspect of the farm might be changed. But taking a short period, such as a week, would admit of an immediate survey being made, ensuring accurate ascertainment and adjustment. He was ready to accede to one month, but the great object was to prevent dishonest and vexatious claims being brought.
 LORD NAAS  said, he was inclined to think that the best mode of settlement would be by having two arbitrators to act for the landlord and tenant, or the outgoing and incoming tenant, whose decision should be binding. He would, therefore, propose a clause to that effect, providing that the survey of two arbitrators should be held, and their decision, or that of their umpire, given within a month.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, it was the opinion of the Government that a notice should be served within some limited period, and on the bringing up the Report he would propose a clause limiting the period to two months.
 LORD NAAS  said, he thought that, in order to prevent litigation, not only should a notice be served, but also the amount claimed should be specified at the time when the tenant terminated his occupation. He would, therefore, propose to add to the clause a proviso enacting that a proper valuation of the several matters for which
 866
 MR. KEOGH  said, he objected to the proposed arbitration as likely to lead to inconvenience, in the event of the arbitrators disagreeing, and conceived that the clause just given notice of on the part of the Government would meet the object which hon. Gentlemen had in view.
 MR. JOHN SADLEIR  said, he hoped the noble Lord the Member for Coleraine (Lord Naas) would not press his Motion. Independent of the proviso which the noble Lord proposed to insert, it would be competent by the Bill for the landlord and tenant to have recourse to arbitration for the settlement of any differences which might arise between them.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, he should oppose the Amendment, on the ground that it would have the effect of inducing the landlord to evict a tenant the moment he heard that it was his intention to carry out any improvements.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he would now move that, in line 6, the words "commence and execute" be omitted, and the words "commenced and executed" inserted in their place.
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, that in consequence of the adoption of the last Amendment, if a tenant complying with the provisions of the measure commenced improvements, and his landlord proceeded to evict him, should the words now under consideration remain in the clause the tenant would not be entitled to recover compensation for the improvements he might have effected. He considered that if the tenant had legally commenced improvements he should be entitled to recover their full value.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, that the object of the clause would be entirely defeated by the proposed Amendment, for if it were adopted the tenant would not be entitled to compensation, unless he had actually executed the improvements of which he had given notice.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he hoped the hon. Gentleman would not press his Motion, for it seemed very likely that they would proceed smoothly with the remaining clauses.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, when the hon. Member for Lambeth moved that the Chairman report progress, he (Mr. Butt) was about to make a Motion which would materially shorten discussion, namely, to omit the whole of the remaining clauses. He would do that on the ground that the whole of the remaining clauses related to the leasing powers, and those leasing powers were provided for by a separate Bill now before the House. If the Motion for reporting progress was not carried, he would move the omission of the clauses relating to leases.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he considered the whole of the discussion that evening as so much waste of time. The retrospective clause, which was a deliberate proposal to transfer a certain sum of money
 868
 MR. COGAN  said, that if hon. Members on the Opposition benches thought proper to persevere in their present course, it would be impossible to proceed with the Bill, and he should, therefore, advise the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland to allow the Chairman to report progress.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he had not the least objection to accede to the proposition if hon. Gentlemen thought it right; but, having passed seventeen clauses which had particular reference to the interests of tenants, he hoped the Committee would not show an indisposition to address themselves to the remaining clauses, which were supposed to be rather in favour of the interests of the landlords. The Government having undertaken the Bill, and having passed it up to its present stage, he trusted the House would not now be disposed to adopt the suggestion of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Youghal (Mr. I. Butt), and take the clauses which had already been passed and form them into a separate measure, but that they would proceed with the remaining portion of the Bill, without allowing any party considerations to interfere with it.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he had no desire to defeat the Bill, or to obstruct its progress; but as it was a very important legal measure it required care and accuracy; and he thought his right hon. and learned Friend the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier) ought to be furnished with the Amendments proposed to be inserted in it before the measure was allowed to pass through Committee.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that the Bill was exactly in the same shape in which it had passed through the House of Lords, and, having been approved and adopted by the eminent judicial authorities of that House, the objections which the hon. and learned Gentleman had urged against it might be withdrawn.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, the hon. Mem-
 869
 MR. MACMAHON  said, he thought the better way would be for the Government to accept the seventeen clauses and dispose of the remainder in the way proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Youghal. If the Bill passed there would not in a few years be a lease in Ireland worth having. It would take away the power of granting leases for three lives, a very common kind of lease in Ireland, and it would even take away the power of the Crown to grant leases for more than twenty-one years.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he was not prepared to omit the latter part of the Bill, and should adhere to the whole of it; but it would be useless to persist in the Bill at present, if the Opposition were prepared to resist it. Therefore the Chairman had better report progress, and the Bill be resumed at the next morning sitting.
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  said, he should move that the Bill be read a second time that day three months. He said he did so with reluctance, as no one was more desirous than he was for a reduction being made in the duties on stage carriages; but the hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for the Treasury, had introduced a clause which had nothing to do with stage carriages, but was intended to subject the members of Building Societies to stamp duties, from which they had hitherto been exempt. The clause was first introduced in the Friendly Societies Act, and he only discovered it at the last moment by accident. By means of the telegraph he communicated with the building societies, and a deputation waited on the hon. Gentleman, and they agreed to a compromise; but when they came to put it in words, they found it could not be carried out. A clause, however, was introduced which was totally different from the compromise. The House of Lords
 870
 MR. MASTERMAN  seconded the Amendment. He thought it most unjust that they should levy taxation upon the people, in respect to a subject of which they at present knew nothing.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. Member who opposed the second reading of the Bill had stated, that there was only one clause of the measure to which he objected. That clause had passed this House during the present Session; it had received full consideration, and had been deliberately adopted by the House in the Friendly Societies Bill. The Bill then went up to the other House; and, as it was there thought that the clause referred to was a revenue clause, and ought not to be inserted in a Bill relating to Friendly Societies, it was accordingly omitted. Under those circumstances, he had introduced the clause into the present Bill for the purpose of again bringing it under discussion. He knew that the clause was objected to by Friendly Societies, but he protested against the doctrine that it would affect only the interests of the poorer classes, for he knew that many of these societies dealt largely in land and made purchases to the amount of 50,000 1. l., 871
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said that, as the noble Lord at the head of the Government had spoken that night of the manner in which the public business was conducted in that House, he should in consistency instruct his colleagues not to conduct their business in the way his Chancellor of the Exchequer carried forward the present measure. The House of Lords had deliberately rejected the clause, as one introducing new taxation; and yet the Chancellor of the Exchequer, on introducing a Bill on stage carriages, inserted that very taxation clause. He should support any opposition that could be made to the Bill.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he had done all he could to oppose the clause in the Friendly Societies Bill; but he did not like to risk that Bill by persevering in his opposition. He thought, however, it ought not to be urged that he and those who acted with him had deliberately passed the clause. He wished to know whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer would, when they went into Committee, agree to abandon that clause?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  in reply, said, that he had previously stated that it would be competent for the House in Committee to adopt or reject this clause as they might think fit. If they refused to read the Bill a second time, they would throw out a clause respecting the mileage duty which he had introduced in the Bill in consequence of the discussions which had taken place on that subject.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he considered that any Bill imposing taxation upon the people ought to be introduced in the regular way by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He would suggest to the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Scholefield) to reserve his opposition until the 6th clause came regularly before them, when he would attain his object in the most effectual and convenient manner. He wished to know what was the extent of the amount of taxation the Chancellor of the Exchequer expected to raise from the tax? He also wished to learn from the Government what was the composition upon which the Inland Revenue made
 872
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he had introduced a clause into the Bill by which the power of compounding for mileage duty would be taken away. The reasons for retaining that power while the duty was at the rate of l½ d. d.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he must complain of the levity with which the subject had been treated by the right hon. Baronet, who had said that the clause relating to Building Societies had been deliberately considered. Those societies, he told the House, had purchased property to the amount of 50,000 1. 1.
 MR. WILSON  said, the question put by the hon. Baronet (Sir H. Willoughby), as to what amount of revenue was to be derived from the imposition of the tax, convinced him that the hon. Baronet did not understand the provisions of the Bill, which was not a measure for the imposition but for the modification of existing taxes. It was impossible to say what amount would be lost by a continuance of the exemption, the effect of which was to give to large associated bodies benefits which were denied to the poor man in his individual capacity.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he thought that Building Societies were deserving of every encouragement, and certainly ought not to be interfered with by a measure like the present.
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he had no alternative but to yield, as the feeling of the House appeared to be adverse to his request. He was only anxious to perform the duty satisfactorily to himself and to the House.
 LORD HOTHAM  said he wished there should be no misconception as to his anxiety to be relieved from further attendance on the Committee upon the London Writ. On Wednesday the House adopted the recommendation of the Committee, that the application of Baron de Rothschild to be heard by counsel should be granted. He was one of the majority of the Committee
 851
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I wish to make an inquiry of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as I did not clearly comprehend his reply to the question put to him by the hon. Member for Evesham (Sir H. Willoughby). I understood the right hon. Gentleman to state that the public expenditure was so considerable that there was a probability of large Supplemental Estimates being laid upon the table; and that, in consequence, we shall, of course, be obliged to go into Committee of Ways and Means. Now, in reference to what we shall do in that Committee, I wish to make this inquiry—whether, when the right hon. Gentleman contracted for the last loan, he entered into an engagement with the contractor that no further sum should be raised this year in the same manner?
 MR. COWAN  said, he wished to make an inquiry as to whether the Government intended to put an end to the system of billeting militia regiments upon private families in Scotland? He repeated the statement made on that occasion, as to the inconvenience suffered by the inhabitants of Dalkeith from this cause. The regiment to which he more particularly referred was commanded by the Duke of Buccleuch, who did all in his power to promote the welfare of his troops. An impression prevailed in the town of Dalkeith that his Grace had the power to remove the grievance of which they complained; but that was not the case. He hoped the Government would give their early attention to the matter, as this was not a time when they could afford to allow feelings of irritation to grow up in any class.
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, that when he filled the office of Attorney General a Commission was issued by the Admiralty, in which was a clause empowering the Commissioners to administer oaths. That clause he struck out, considering the Crown had no power to create any new tribunal with power to administer oaths.
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, he understood, from the reply of the right hon. Baronet, that a Commission to Inquire into the conduct of the police was about, to be issued, and that it was proposed to introduce a clause into that Commission empowering the Commissioners to administer oaths. He (Sir F. Thesiger) wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman had consulted the law officers of the Crown as to the power of the Crown to issue a Commission of that description with power to administer oaths, and whether an Act of Parliament was not necessary for that purpose?
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, that there was more cause for complaint in Inverness-shire than in any other county, because Fort George, Fort William, and Fort Augustus, situated in that county, would afford excellent barrack accommodation. He trusted that the Ordnance Department would turn their attention to the subject, with a view to relieve the inhabitants from the burden now cast on them.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he was glad the noble Lord had consented to remain on the Committee. He had been extremely anxious that the noble Lord should not retire, and he was perfectly confident the noble Lord would form as sound a judgment on the question as any Member of the House.
 MR. WALPOLE  said he begged to move that Lord Hotham be discharged from further attendance on, and that Mr. E. C. Egerton be added to the Committee on the London Writ.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether the arrangements were completed for instituting a Commission of Inquiry into the conduct of the police, and, if so, what the tribunal would be, when it would be ready, and where it would sit?
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he was quite satisfied with the tribunal appointed, and he had no doubt those gentlemen would do their duty satisfactorily. He wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether the parties complaining would have permission to appear by counsel, or would have to appear in their own persons, and, if so, would the police also have to appear in the same manner?
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he hoped the noble Lord would reconsider his decision, because, if he were right, he (Mr. Duncombe) ought to follow the noble Lord's example, for he also had voted in favour of hearing counsel in Baron de Rothschild's case. The Committee was composed of eleven Members; at present seven of those were lawyers, and they required an eighth to bewilder the other three. He did not understand why they might not have heard the legal Members on the Committee and then decided, though he would not say they would all have
 852
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, he had been told that the number of invalids at Chatham entitled to arrears of pay was very inconsiderable, since all who had left Scutari hospital since the 1st of April had had their pay. There were, no doubt, many invalids who arrived prior to the 1st of April in respect to whom some difficulties had occurred, but their claims were being gradually disposed of. It should, however, be remembered that those men had been receiving full pay ever since their arrival in England; it was, therefore, hardly true to say that there were any men who had not received pay since the month of August.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that at the present time the pay lists were transmitted with great regularity.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that all that would be left to the discretion of the Commissioners. Every facility would, of course, be given to the parties complaining for bringing forward their cases, and they would be heard in a manner most satisfactory for producing an impartial inquiry.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it had been determined to appoint a Commission which would consist of the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Recorder of the City of London; the Recorder of Manchester, Mr. R. B. Armstrong; and Mr. Henderson, the Recorder of Liverpool. Some delay had been occasioned in preparing the Commission by reason of its being of a formal nature. It was thought necessary that a Commission should be issued under the
 855
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had not exactly consulted the law officers, but he had consulted precedent. There were many precedents of Commissions with similar powers, one, not long ago, with reference to some alleged proceedings in the gaol at Birmingham. He had communicated with the learned Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Home Department upon the subject, and the precedents had been strictly followed.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he begged to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer if he was able to state whether he should require another Committee of Ways and Means, and, if so, on what day he should be prepared to move that the House resolve itself into one?
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, that the
 858
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that he would call the attention of his noble Friend at the head of the War Department to the circumstance of the want of space for ball practice at Aldershot, but at the same time he would remind his hon. and gallant Friend, that in order to provide for an effective ball practice, a considerable range was required, probably from 800 to 1,000 yards, and it was not easy to procure a range of that extent free from the passage of men and animals. With
 857
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  stated that the particular grievance of which the maltsters complained was, that after their bonds had been registered in the Court of Common Pleas, there was no cheap or ready mode by which their obligations might be removed, after the necessity for the continuance of those obligations had ceased. He had made inquiry into the state of the law on the
 886
 SIR BULWER LYTTON : Sir, if I understand correctly the allusions of the noble Lord towards the end of his speech, it is not before the phalanx of a hostile party that he retires from office. That is true. It is before the sense of the country, evinced in the desertion of his own followers. But do those followers deserve the lofty taunt of the noble Lord? No, Sir; it is not, as he implies, that they forsook him because his fortunes waned or wavered, but because he deviated into a path which seemed to leave behind it the honour of his country. The noble Lord has a second time in one campaign left the field upon the eve of contest, and in doing so he has entered at such length into a vindication of his previous conduct, that I trust the House will not consider it ungenerous or vindictive in me, if I also vindicate some of those reasons which have induced me, and those who support me in this Motion, to think that the conduct of the noble Lord was such as to shake the confidence of the country in those who administer its affairs. Under the altered circumstances of the case, however, I shall make my statement as temperately as may be consistent with the requisite proof that it was not upon light grounds that we brought forward a charge against a man so eminent, and against a Government so justly entitled to the indulgence of compassion. What, Sir, on Thursday last, was the position of the noble Lord and of the Government who then so boldly accepted our challenge, and who have since selected as a victim for sacrifice the very champion whom they then armed at all points for encounter? The position of the noble Lord on Thursday last was this, and he must pardon me if I state it frankly, because in the whole course of his speech, he does not seem to have understood how that position is viewed by his countrymen. Here was a great and distinguished statesman, who had held the office of Chief Minister of the Crown, who was sent to Vienna to negotiate terms of peace, or to report to us honestly the necessity for continued war. Under what circumstances was he selected? He had just before broken up a Government by his own solitary desertion—a desertion so sudden, and accompanied by a denunciation of two of his colleagues so startling, that it was without parallel in the records of this House. But it was not without an excuse. What was the excuse? Why, that upon a question involving the fate of armies
 902
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I beg the hon. Baronet's pardon. What I said was, that I could not oppose the Motion for inquiry, not that I could not defend their conduct. There was no question about defence.
 SIR BULWER LYTTON : I have not the least objection to the change of terms, and as I now understand the noble Lord he left his former office, in the Earl of Aberdeen's Administration, because he could not oppose the Motion for the appointment of the Sebastopol Committee; but does he forget all the observations which he made in explanation of the course he then took? Does he forget the charges, or at least the strong insinuations, which he made against the Duke of Newcastle and the Earl of Aberdeen? Surely, if the noble Lord's explanation at that period was rightly conceived, it informed us that he was compelled to retire, and to break up the Government of which he was so eminent a Member, because of his distrust of the warlike capacities of his colleagues. He says he could not resist inquiry. Inquiry into what? National disasters; ascribed to what? To the want of competent vigour either in the chief Minister or the Minister of War. This was his excuse for not suppressing his sentiments. I say, again, a noble excuse, but an excuse that required the uniformity of an inflexible political creed. Well, then, this statesman, is sent to Vienna; he apparently fails in his object; he returns; a suspicion gets abroad that the noble Lord is inclined to favour the proposals of the Austrian Government. That suspicion is mentioned in this House on the 24th of May, and the noble Lord rises to make a speech to dispel that suspicion, to vindicate the breaking-off of negotiations, and the continuance of the war; and although the noble Lord does not refer to the Austrian proposals at all, he does in that speech, which I do not think he has successfully defended to-night, speak with marked disdain of the propositions which embodied that main principle of naval counterpoise which, we have since learned, the Austrian propositions contained. He says, "After I had left Vienna another proposal was made, which my right hon. Friend the Member for the University
 903 904 905 906 907 908 "We think that the limitation of the Russian fleet should be absolute, and that it would be made too conditional by the plan which you propose. We must avoid, as much as possible, the system of counterpoise, the objections to which you have explained fully to the Austrian Government." 909 Ironical cheers from Ministers, 910 911 912 913
 MR. BOUVERIE : Sir, I am not going to follow the hon. Baronet into the subject of his Motion, which appears to have evaporated into thin air. I wish, however, to refer to a matter personal to myself. My name has been connected with recent transactions in a manner which has caused me the deepest pain, and I trust the House will permit me to justify myself against what—considering my relation towards my noble Friend the Member for the City of London—I cannot but conceive to be an imputation upon my personal character. It has been stated that, on the part of a number of my colleagues not in the Cabinet, I represented to the noble Viscount (Lord Palmerston) that we were prepared to resign our offices rather than oppose the motion of the hon. Baronet (Sir B. Lytton). So far as I am concerned, I beg to state most fully and decidedly that that statement is not only not an accurate representation of facts, hut that it is the very reverse of the truth. In spite of the criticisms in which the hon. Baronet has indulged upon the character of my noble Friend the Member for the City of London, (Lord J. Russell) I still do not hesitate to avow my strong political attachment to my noble Friend. In spite of the speech of the hon. Baronet, I still believe in the integrity, the honour, and the sagacity of my noble Friend; and if in matters of recent occurrence I may be disposed to question his judgment, still I hope the House will permit me to say that the glory of all that he has done in his long past career dazzles my vision, and prevents me from seeing those spots which, in the opinion of some, may blemish his fair fame. Sir, apart from a long political attachment to my noble Friend, I am
 914 "In prosperous days they swarm, But in adverse, withdraw their heads, not to be found When sought."
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I think that the withdrawal of his Resolution by the hon. Baronet the Member for Hertfordshire, does as much credit to his discretion as his eloquence does generally to his talent; but at the same time I must confess that I have never heard a speech more full of inconsistencies and of contradictions than that with which he has just favoured the House. In the first place, the hon. Baronet, while the speech of my noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) was still ringing in his ears—while be could not by any possibilty have forgotten that my noble Friend stated that in the lapse of a few days after his
 915
 SIR BULWER LYTTON : I rise, Sir, to explain. The noble Lord must excuse me for interrupting him, but he is really misrepresenting me. What I stated was, that I regarded Lord Clarendon as being the representative of his own opinions. I did not state that he was not the representative
 916
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I must say, Sir, that the explanation of the hon. Baronet leaves the matter exactly as I have put it. It reminds me of the well known query, "Who shall interpret for the interpreter?" The hon. Baronet, I think, requires somebody to explain his explanation. He admits, however, what I have just stated, and, indeed, he cannot deny it, because it is so recent. He distinctly asserted that Lord Clarendon was the organ and exponent of his own individual opinions, and then, proceeding to draw a contrast, he said, "The noble Lord at the head of the Ministry speaks for the Government; Lord Clarendon speaks for himself." "And," continued the hon. Baronet," I should like to know what the First Minister said, and to see what were the letters which he addressed to the noble Lord the late British Plenipotentiary." This remark was met with a derisive cheer from this side of the House, which was of, course, meant to imply "Why does not the hon. Baronet know that the official correspondence of a Government with its Minister Plenipotentiary is always conducted through the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, and not through the First Lord of the Treasury?" Sir, the hon. Baronet knows this as well as any man, and therefore I again offer him the alternative between deliberate insincerity and gross ignorance. I really wonder, Sir, that a man of the hon. Baronet's standing, and one who is given out as the person who is to hold a high office in the Government which is to come, should have placed himself between the horns of such a dilemma. And touching on the subject of a new Government, I am reminded that the hon. Baronet told us that these repeated changes in the Ministry expose us to the ridicule of Europe. Why, Sir, there might be a change of Government that would render us still more the ridicule of Europe, I mean if a man like the hon. Baronet were to be placed in a high situation in it. The hon. Member, however, wants to know whether Lord Clarendon spoke and wrote the opinions of the Government. I tell him that Lord Clarendon did speak and write the opinions of the united Cabinet. I say that I also have expressed the sentiments of the united Cabinet; and
 917 918
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I should hardly have thought it necessary to make any remarks upon the observations of the noble Lord; but, as there is a tribute of courtesy due to any individual who fills the eminent position, not only of First Minister of the Crown, but of leader of the House of Commons, perhaps I may be excused if I offer a few comments upon the remarkable speech to which we have just listened. Such a defence of an Administration (placed in a most critical position, under circumstances of great gravity, and with a responsibility resting upon them which probably no Administration
 919 Derisive cheers from the Ministerial benches. 920 921 922 923 924 925 in commendam. 926 927 928
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Really, Sir, I must speak to order. The right hon. Gentleman is totally misrepresenting what I said. I reminded the hon. Member for Hertfordshire of what had been stated by my noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) in regard to himself, and that his opinion as to the practicability of adopting the terms which he brought from Vienna was changed by circumstances which had been brought to his knowledge; but I never stated that that was the opinion of the rest of the Cabinet, or my own opinion. On the contrary, I stated the very reverse—namely, that the language of Lord Clarendon in those despatches, which is invariably adverse to such proposition, was the language, opinion, and sentiment of the whole of the Cabinet, and of myself in particular.
 MR. DISRAELI : What the noble Lord has said does not in the least affect what I am urging. If in consequence of circumstances the noble Lord the Member for the City of London remains in the Cabinet, if, in consequence of circumstances, any Member of the Cabinet, or all the Members of the Cabinet who had favourably received that proposition—[Viscount PALMERSTON: There were none]—also remain in the Cabinet, the result is the same. "Something has happened, Gentlemen," I can fancy I hear the noble Lord saying to the rest of his colleagues, "it is of no use now to discuss whether we shall have war or peace, it is no longer necessary to have any conference as to whether we shall prosecute the war with vigour or whether we shall accede to any Austrian or other proposition, because circumstances have
 929 930 931
 MR. ROEBUCK : Sir, the noble Lord the Member for the City of London fancies that he is injured; but who has done him an injury? A question was asked of the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown who was aforetime his colleague; and that question elicited an answer from the noble Lord which occasioned the Motion of the hon. Baronet the Member for Hertfordshire. The noble Lord the Member for London upon that occasion did what he has more than once done before. At the very sound of danger—at the very first whistling of the storm, he ran and hid himself in the back benches—he disappeared from the Treasury bench. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) says that the noble Lord with a reputation of a quarter of a century mysteriously disappears. I think that the noble Lord's reputation mysteriously disappears. What is it of which the noble Lord is accused? I think
 932 933 934 935
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the rules of the House did not allow the hon. and learned Member to quote from a newspaper a speech which had been delivered during the present Session, and he did not think the hon. and learned Member could cure the irregularity by tearing a piece out.
 MR. ROEBUCK : Then, I will give the effect of the noble Lord's statements from my own memory, and if I am incorrect, the fault is not with me, but with the rule of the House which obliges me to rely upon that faulty instrument when I have a correct report at hand. On the 4th of July, the noble Lord, in reply to a right hon. Gentleman, said he had not changed his opinion with regard to the proposition
 936 "And saints with wonder heard the vows I made;"
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, as the Resolution of the hon. Baronet (Sir B. Lytton) is to be withdrawn, I should not have thought it necessary to have taken a part in the discussion had it not been for the statements which have been repeatedly made by the hon. and learned Gentleman, (Mr. Roebuck) without a shadow of proof for their support, with respect to the opinions of different Members of the Cabinet. The hon. and learned Gentleman has asserted that there were Members of the Cabinet—and he has done me the honour to single me out especially as one of them—who thought that the Austrian proposal brought by the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) from Vienna ought to have been accepted. He has asked me whether that was my opinion. Sir, I decline to answer the appeal
 937 938 939
 MR. GLADSTONE : I am not going, Sir, to enter into the personal questions which have arisen during this debate, neither do I intend to avail myself of the opportunity which is technically offered of discussing the policy of the war or the conduct of the late negotiations, for it appears to me that, as important papers, containing most important disclosures, have been laid on the table since we debated the momentous subject of the war, it is plain that the House did debate this subject, not, indeed, in total darkness, but with imperfect information in respect to the subject it was discussing; and an early opportunity must therefore be afforded of returning to this question. In the midst of the many difficulties by which we are encompassed, it appears to me, in consequence of questions which have arisen on the papers which have lately been produced, that it is desirable that the Government should take an opportunity to give the fullest explanation as respects the rules and obligations which they ought to observe in regard to the communication of papers to the House which are to be made the foundation of debate, of solemn judgment, and decision. The first point which I shall now mention touches my noble Friend the Member for the City of London, and he will, I hope, have an opportunity of explaining the objection which I mean to take to his speech of the 24th of May, if my objection has the semblance of being well founded. I do not wish to overstate or to exaggerate the character of that speech as being in favour of an Administration of a warlike policy, but this stands clear in my recollection, when I, in the course of that discussion, speaking before any Member of the Government had delivered an opinion, ventured to say that the second proposal of the Russian Plenipotentiary, instead of being summarily rejected, ought to be dealt with as a starting point for further communications, my noble Friend, following me in that debate, denounced
 940 "If other hope is lost, I wish to propose to the Conference the following plan. The French Minister is favourable to it. Austria will not support any demand for cession of territory." "Upon any increase of the Russian naval forces beyond the number specified in Article 1, or on the existence of a larger Russian force being ascertained, a larger number of Ships of war of
 941 942 "Should the Government of Her Majesty, in concert with that of France, be of opinion that such a peace can be accepted, they will instruct Lord Westmorland accordingly. If not, I hope to be allowed to be heard personally before a final decision is made." "I said that the opinions of Her Majesty's Government with respect to the system of counterpoise were well known to Count Buol, and it was hardly necessary to repeat that they looked upon it as impracticable and illusory." 943 "Her Majesty's Government certainly do not consider all the modes of solution of the question at issue as exhausted. We do consider that Austria is still charged, by her own voluntary assumption, and the consent of the allies, with the task of endeavouring to discover means of bringing about an accommodation between the contending parties."—[3  Hansard, 944
 MR. MOFFATT  said, he begged to inquire whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Ministers to avail themselves of the present vacancy to abolish the office of Postmaster General, and to appoint a Chairman responsible to the Treasury, in conformity with the more economical and practical system which obtains in the other great departments of public revenue—namely, the Customs, Excise, Stamps, and Taxes?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, as it had not been expected that the Bill would come on at so early an hour—as several hon. Members who objected to some of its provisions might not be present—and as notice had been given of a Motion for the rejection of the 6th clause, he proposed to proceed with the first five clauses in Committee, and that progress should then be reported.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had merely suggested the postponement of the clause because some hon. Gentlemen, who took an interest in the subject, might have left the House in the belief that the Bill would not come on at so early an hour. He would move that the Chairman report progress.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he must confess that he felt himself placed in circumstances of considerable difficulty with respect to the clause now under consideration. In the situation which he had the honour to hold he felt it his duty not to allow important branches of the revenue to he undermined by proposals which would have the effect of making large breaches in the productiveness of certain taxes, contrary to the intention of the Legislature at the time such taxes were imposed. From many representations which had been made to him, he was aware that strong objections were entertained to the clause, but he believed that those objections rested in a great measure upon a misapprehension of the true state of the facts of the case. The only means of ascertaining the true facts of the case was by an impartial inquiry, to be conducted, not under the direction of the Government, but by the Members of that House. He was, therefore, willing to consent to withdraw the clause for the present Session on the understanding that
 949
 THE SOLICITOR GEENERAL,  in moving the second reading of the Bill, said its object was to prevent the necessity of applying to Parliament in certain cases where parties were desirous of granting leases, effecting sales, or performing other acts not provided for in the deeds under which they took title. Some apprehensions had been expressed lest the Bill would allow that to be done which Parliament had before refused to allow, and in particular the case of Hampstead Heath enclosure had been referred to. Such an intention had not existed in the minds of the framers of the Bill, but, in order to satisfy those who did apprehend such a
 950
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he thought the Bill was too important to be hurriedly dealt with. It took all power in cases of settled estates away from Parliament, and transferred it to the Court of Chancery. He should move as an Amendment, that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he must deny the charge of having hurried the measure. The hon. Baronet the Member for Honiton had been well aware that it was to be introduced. As to the papers, the moment they were moved for he had assented to their production, and they could not at all assist the House in determining the question.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he must object to the clause suggested by the hon. and gallant Member (Captain Scobell), inasmuch as it was extremely difficult satisfactorily to ascertain and determine whether a ship was really worthy to go to sea or not, and because a clause of the kind must put seamen in possession of a power which they could not fail to abuse, a power of raising difficulties and unreasonable objections  ad infinitum.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he hoped that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bouverie) would not persevere in his opposition to the clause, which was calculated to operate very beneficially.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, he thought it was the general wish of the Committee that this clause should not be pressed, and he, therefore, hoped that his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer would withdraw it.
 MR. E. BALL  said, he wished to inquire if the Chancellor of the Exchequer had taken into his consideration the inconvenience and loss sustained by the maltster from his being obliged to find securities for the payment of malt duties, and the great hardship that persons so becoming securities made their entire property responsible for the said duties, and were prohibited from disposing of any portion of their estate in lands or houses?
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he had submitted a clause to the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Board of Trade, to which he now invited his atten-
 945
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, he believed the noble Lord at the head of the Government was perfectly familiar with the name of General Guyon, who was conspicuous for his services in the war for the independence of Hungary. That gallant officer was employed in the Turkish army at Kars last year, but by means of intrigues on the part of the Turkish generals he was removed from his position. He begged to ask the noble Lord whether he had any objection to instruct the British Ambassador at Constantinople to procure a military command for General Guyon?
 MR. WILSON  said, in reply to the first question, he might say that the charge for the transmission of a newspaper to the Colonies was higher than before the alteration of the law, inasmuch as a newspaper went free of postage before that time, whereas it was now charged 1 d. 887 d.
 MR. WILSON  said, that it was impossible to say whether the question of compensation of the revenue entered into the consideration of the charge to be made for the transmission of newspapers to the Colonies. He ought to say that the increased Colonial postage was in contemplation prior to the Newspaper Postage Act.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he thought that the right hon. Gentleman had taken a very judicious course, for two reasons; in the first place because he would not have been able to carry the clause, and next, because he (Mr. Bright) thought there was a great deal in the complaint which had been made, that the Government, in a clause like this, had attempted to impose a new tax upon a large portion of the people in a Bill which had no reference to the matter on which the tax was proposed to be levied. With regard to the tax itself, he was not one of those who thought that various classes of society, under one pretence or another, ought to be exempted from taxation. In the present case, however, there was the difficulty—namely, that thousands had entered those societies under the impression that they would have no taxes to pay on the little property which they would acquire, and he thought that nothing could tend more to improve the condition of the artisan classes of society than to offer every facility to a great number of persons in the receipt of weekly wages to save those wages and invest them in houses or land.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he should support the clause of the noble Lord, on the ground that it was calculated to remove many if not all of the evils that had grown up under I the old system, and which still existed. At the present day men were hired to place ballast on board ships, not because they were good workmen, but because they were hard drinkers. They were expected to drink 6 s. s. s.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought that the matter could not be dealt with in the
 947
 MR. HENLEY  said, he doubted whether the clause proposed to guard against a renewal in other shapes of unsuccessful applications would have the effect which was intended. In the case of Hampstead Heath he believed that it was always denied that any enclosure was intended, and upon that statement the power sought might be obtained from the Court of Chancery. A clause was proposed to insure publicity; but if publicity was required, surely that was an additional reason why the jurisdiction should not be transferred from Parliament to the Court of Chancery. He quite agreed with the noble Lord the Member for Totness, that the Bill ought to be sent to a Select Committee, for in its present shape he did not like it at all.
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he must express a hope that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would reduce the duty on stage horses from 1½ d. d.
 MR. HORSFALL,  in moving the omission of the clause, said, that he had received communications from the members of numerous Benefit Building Societies throughout the country, complaining of the manner in which the clause would affect such societies. These persons represented that, in their opinion, the clause had been introduced under some erroneous view of the nature of those, exemptions from stamp duties which were enjoyed by the members of Benefit Building Societies, and also of the character and operation of such institutions. Upon every transaction of an extraneous character the stamp duty was at present paid by the society, and on that ground he appealed to the Committee to support the rejection of the clause.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he had hoped his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer would have withdrawn the 6th clause, but if he did not adopt that course he thought the Committee ought to proceed with the Bill.
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  said, he thought that the Government ought not to have proceeded with as much of the Bill as it suited their purpose to take, and then propose to postpone the remainder.
 SIR JAMES HOGG  said, he was surprised that the Bill should be pressed so soon, as it had only just been introduced. These Courts no doubt required reform, but the Court of Directors were in Communication with the Government upon the subject. The point in contention was, that the Directors contended that the opinion of the Legislative Council of India should be taken upon the question, or at all events let the opinion of the Government of India be taken. But the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control wanted to hurry through the Bill without waiting for the opinion of the Indian Government or deferring to the opinion of the Court of Directors. Was it fair to press the second reading two days after the Bill had been presented, and while a Motion for papers on the subject was pending? If the Bill passed there would be
 951
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, the hon. Gentleman had not answered the third question.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that considerable inconvenience having arisen in consequence of the different interpretations put by the postmasters on the regulations issued by the Post Office authorities in regard to the transmission of newspapers to the British colonies, he begged to ask the Secretary to the Treasury the following questions—
 "Whether the charge for the transmission of newspapers to the British Colonies is higher now than it was before the passing of the recent Newspaper Stamp Duties Act? "Whether the charge for the transmission of newspapers to the British West Indies is higher than the charge for their transmission to Peru, New Granada, and other foreign countries? "Whether the charge upon the transmission of newspapers to the Colonies has been so raised with a view to compensate the revenue for the loss sustained by the partial repeal of the stamp duty in this country? "Whether any arrangement can be made for forwarding to the West Indies by the mail of the 17th instant such newspapers as may have been erroneously posted, either with an impressed stamp, but without a postage label, or with a postage label, but without an impressed stamp, before the last notice issued by the Postmaster General; and, whether such orders have now been given on the subject of the postage of newspapers as will prevent any future misconception on the part of the district, postmasters?"
 SIR ERSKINE PERRY  said, he had to offer some objections of the hon. Baronet's remarks. The subject had been pressed upon the Court of Directors for a quarter of a century past, and the library teemed with information about it. The Court of Directors had for twenty-four years been pressed to remedy the grievance complained of, but the remedy had not been applied. The grievance was, that the people of the island, including the great seaport of Singapore, were without a resident legal judge, and without a proper system of judicature. The local Legislature had wished to remedy the evil, and the present measure afforded it only too tardily. He trusted, therefore, that the House would assent to the second reading of the Bill.
 VISCOUNT GODERICH  said, he was anxious to bring in a proviso to meet the objection of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire, but he feared that he could not then do so consistently with the rules of the House.
 VISCOUNT GODERICH  said, he wished to call attention to the case of the ballast-heavers, which had been more than once brought under the notice of the House. Their case was very similar to that of the coal-heavers who had been provided for by special legislation; and, on a former occasion, he had moved an Amendment very similar to that which he was now about to submit. The then President of the Board of Trade had, however, objected to it, on the ground that the clause which ho proposed would be amply sufficient for the object in view, and in consequence of that assurance he (Viscount Goderich) did not press his Amendment. Since then the clause in question had been in operation, and had been found productive of great good in a certain limited circle, but outside that circle it had left standing all the evils which it was intended to meet. Those evils arose from the fact that, in the ballast-heaving trade there had been long established a truck system of a most objectionable nature. The persons engaged were employed by publicans, and were obliged to drink a large amount of liquor. In consequence, an enactment had been introduced by the right hon. Member for Oxford (Mr. Cardwell) giving permission to the Trinity House to heave ballast, and employ a certain number of these ballast-heavers for the purpose. Two letters had been addressed to the Trinity House on the subject of the Act of 1853—one stating that it had been successful; and the second showing that the evil complained of still existed to a large extent with respect to the men not employed by the Trinity House.
 946 "That in addition to the duties hitherto performed in consideration of the ballastage rates, under the local Act of the seventh year of Her present Majesty, chapter fifty-seven, for the regulation of Lastage and Ballastage in the River Thames, the Trinity House shall put the ballast supplied by them to ships on board of the same ships, and shall unload the ballast from ships requiring to unload their ballast into Trinity House lighters, except where these duties shall be performed by the crew of any such ship; and the Trinity House shall be entitled to charge for such additional duties such reasonable additional rate per ton for ballast so placed on board or unladen, as Her Majesty, by Order in Council, from time to time, approves."
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that, with respect to the gallant officer to whom the question referred, he was glad to bear the same honourable testimony which the hon. Member had borne to the gallantry of that officer, and to the very valuable and meritorious services which he had rendered to Turkey since he had been employed in the service. The gallant officer was for a considerable time last year employed with the Turkish army in Asia. Circumstances led to a temporary cessation of that command,
 888
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The Post Office is to a certain degree, no doubt, an office of revenue, inasmuch as the Post Office service produces a certain amount of revenue to the country, although not very large. But I consider that the Post Office differs very essentially from those departments which are purely and mainly employed in the collection of revenue. The Post Office is rather an office of administration than an office of revenue. Of late years it has been the opinion of those in this House who have most turned their attention to these matters, that the main duty of the Post Office is not to collect revenue for the public, but to effect easily and readily the cheap transmission of correspondence for the convenience of the public, and for the promotion of the commercial interests of the country. I look upon that as being the main object of the Post Office Department, and that it has executive functions rather than mere functions of revenue. It appears to me, from these circumstances, that the Post Office should be a department connected with the political and responsible advisers of the Crown, and that it would not be for the public interest to separate it from the Administration of the day by placing it upon the same footing as the Customs and Inland Revenue Departments. I do not think that any economy would result from the change, and considerable inconvenience might arise from the department being disconnected with the responsible Government of the day.
 MR. ROEBUCK : I now rise, Sir, to move the Resolution of which I have given notice. It is with the utmost sincerity I say I view with alarm my own position. A great question is now to be submitted to the House, and he who has to submit it is totally inadequate to the performance of the task. But, Sir, feeling strongly as to the truth of the proposition which I have to submit, I will shortly address myself to the subject now before the House. I will first beg to call to the recollection of the House the circumstances under which the Committee was appointed, which has led to the Report which, in fact, is the foundation of my proposition. A great army was sent from this country on an expedition about which the country was in profound darkness. That army was composed of as gallant spirits as ever left the shores of England. They displayed a valour which did honour to Englishmen, and, in saying that, I think I say all that can be said in praise of them. That army reached its destination, and immediately there grew up and pervaded the public mind rumours of disasters, distress, and suffering, which harrowed the feelings of the nation. These accounts and rumours came not in consequence of official documents, but from private sources. From day to day the public mind was harassed by dreadful disclosures of distress and suffering borne by our gallant countrymen whom we had sent to fight the battle of England. Great was the alarm throughout the country, and great was the disappointment which pervaded the community. Fortified by the public anxiety, and being myself deeply impressed with the feeling of my countrymen—strongly commiserating the misery of which we heard from day to day most harrowing descriptions—I gave notice, although most unequal to the task, of a Motion for an inquiry into the truth of these reports. How that Motion was met must be in the recollection of the House. 955 956 "It appears that the sufferings of the army resulted mainly from the circumstances in which the expedition to the Crimea was undertaken and executed. The Administration which ordered that expedition had no adequate information as to the amount of force in the Crimea or Sebastopol. They were not acquainted with the strength of the fortresses to be attacked, or with the resources of the country to be invaded. They hoped and expected that the expedition would be immediately successful, and, as they did not foresee the probability of a protracted struggle, they made no provision for a winter campaign. What was planned and undertaken without sufficient information was conducted without sufficient care or forethought. This conduct on the part of the Administration was the first and chief cause of the calamities which befel our army." brutum fulmen, 957 "1. That when war was imminent they made no preparations to meet a contingency which they must have known was certain. 2. That after war was declared, and before the expedition to
 958 "That, when war was imminent, they made no preparations to meet a contingency which they must have known was certain." 959 "The Cabinet appear to have been confident of success. Lord Aberdeen states it to have been their impression that Sebastopol would fall almost immediately by a  coup de main. "Lord Raglan, in his despatch of the 19th of July, states that 'the descent on the Crimea is decided upon more in deference to the views of the British Government than to any information in the possession of the naval and military authorities, either as to the extent of the enemy's forces or to their state of preparation." 960 "From the 16th of September, when the army landed in the Crimea, until the end of October, or, as some witnesses state, until about the middle of November, the troops suffered from overwork and from dysentery." 961 962 963 964 965 966
 MR. HADFIELD  seconded the Motion.
 GENERAL PEEL : Sir, in moving the previous question, I would observe that the Resolution which the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield has placed in your hands, in the first place, calls upon this House to express a deep feeling of regret at the sufferings of our army during the winter campaign in the Crimea. To that portion of the Resolution I am sure that every Member of this House will cordially assent, and, I think, would also be willing to add some expression of admiration for the fortitude which that army displayed during all its privations. The Resolution, however, goes on to say that the House, coinciding with the Resolution of their Committee, that the conduct of the Administration was the first and chief cause of the calamities which befell that army, do hereby visit with severe reprehension every Member of that Cabinet whose counsels led to such disastrous results. Before the House consents to agree to that Resolution, it ought to consider what are the principal considerations which it embodies. Now, Sir, I think that, if the words of the Resolution convey any meaning at all, that meaning is an expression condemnatory of the policy of the expedition to the Crimea. Now I, for one, am not prepared to come to that conclusion, or to condemn the policy of that expedition. I voted against that Resolution in the Committee, and I certainly am not prepared to adopt it now. It is perfectly true that little was known of the state of the Russian army, or of the Russian fortresses in the Crimea; but if no expedition was to be undertaken until full and accurate information on these points was obtained, I venture to say that the allied armies would have attempted nothing
 967 coup de main 968 "England has not usually been very successful at the commencement of her wars, for the reason that she does not in the time of peace maintain an army large enough to be capable of lasting as well as sudden extension. It is possible, as this year has shown, to create, at very short notice, a very efficient and, for us, considerable army; but it is quite another thing to maintain those numbers and that efficiency. The army of the East has been created by discounting the future. Every regiment at home or within reach, and not forming part of that army, has been robbed to complete it; the depôts of the regiments under Lord Raglan have been similarly treated." 969 "It has caused me considerable annoyance to be exposed to such a charge from so high an authority, (Sebastopol Committee) after a prolonged service in which I have endeavoured
 970 "With regard to the general censure on the Members of the Board, whatever may have been the differences that existed, my conscience acquits me of any 'want of judgment and temper,' and I can with confidence appeal to my colleagues whether, except on the question of discipline in the laboratory, I was involed in any difference with either." "I observe that blame is freely thrown upon the Ordnance. Now, my belief is that the Board have done better than any other department. The artillery are well equipped here; the men had what was requisite for them sooner than the rest of the army, and altogether they seem to have done everything that was possible for the service." 971 "Poor Lord Raglan died last night very unexpectedly, which has put us all out of spirits, for he was universally liked, and the men would have done anything for him." "By Lord Raglan's death the British army has suffered a greater loss than it has had yet to encounter. Throughout the army, as far as I can hear, there is but one universal expression of regret. If those who have been so lavish of their virulent, scurrilous, and undeserved abuse of poor Lord Raglan will now have the goodness to point out a successor who can efficiently fill his place they would save much trouble." 972
 LORD ROBERT CECIL,  in seconding the Amendment, said he should offer but very few words of remark to the House. He must, however, point out that there was some inconsistency in the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman and in the Motion which he had brought forward. The speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman had reference almost entirely to the misdeeds of the present Government, but the words of the Motion covered a much larger ground, and included censure
 973 974
 COLONEL SHAFTO ADAIR  said, that, though he had been informed by Mr. Speaker that it would not be competent for him to move the Amendment which he, as an independent Member, had thought it right to place upon the paper, it would be necessary for him to explain the motives which had induced him to take that step. Those motives had been commented upon by the public press, and it had been said that the Amendment had been drawn up with all the skill of an adept in Parliamentary manœuvre, that it must have received the approbation of the Government, and probably had been put forward with the cognisance of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston). The object of those remarks was to stamp him, for endeavouring to do his duty as an independent Member, with the brand of a hireling, who was ready at any moment to act upon the bidding of the Government. He told the House, not because he thought they would deem him capable of such conduct, but because he would stand clear before the country upon the matter, that he had had no communication whatever upon the subject with any Member of Her Majesty's Government, and there were but three Members of the House who were cognisant of the terms of the Address he had intended to move, and for which he alone was responsible. Not that he wished to leave the House under the impression that he did not sympathise with Government in the matter. He took that occasion to say that he had had placed at his disposal by the noble Lord—to whom he now begged to express his acknowledge-
 975 976 matériel 977 "The strict economy enforced during a long period of peace, by means of a rigid system of audit and account, may doubtless, at the first outbreak of war, have still fettered Dr. Smith, as well as other public servants, who dreaded to incur responsibility for any expenditure, however urgent, which was not guarded by all the forms and documents usually required. An excess of caution, in the first instance, led probably to some evils, which a lavish outlay could not afterwards repair." "That the counsels which determined the expedition to the Crimea were consistent with a bold and sagacious policy, just to our Allies, and commensurate with the objects of the war; and, further, that perseverance in a similar policy alone can afford hope of ensuring an honourable and permanent peace." 978 979 980
 MR. CONOLLY  said, he would take the liberty of telling the hon. and gallant Gentleman that his Amendment had nothing to do with the issue before the House. That issue was one of a far graver character than the hon. and gallant Gentleman's opinion. It was simply and distinctly whether the Ministers, who were the advisers of the Crown, were or were not responsible to the House and the kingdom for the advice they gave to their Sovereign? That was the question before the House; not whether it was right or wrong in the hon. Gentleman's opinion, for a particular line of policy to have been adopted. The policy of going to Sebastopol was not only not before the House, but was distinctly excluded from the consideration of the Select Committee by the Resolution upon which the House agreed to refer the state of the army before Sebastopol to the consideration of that Committee. He told the hon. and gallant Gentleman and the noble Viscount the First Minister of the Crown, who might wish to shelter himself under that Amendment, that the policy of going to Sebastopol had nothing to do with the censure which an indignant nation had a right to pass upon the inadequacy of the means employed for carrying out that policy. The real issue before the House was with reference to the policy which was taken by Her Majesty's Government, whether they had acted with common sense. He would not put it on the ground of duty to the country or the Crown, but would ask—did they act up to common sense in ordering out such an army; and was that army sufficiently equipped to carry out their policy? If they did not, they were open to the severest censure. And if it were shown that the Government had been wanting in those important respects, he should have no hesitation, before God and his country, in recording his vote against them. They were there that night to ascertain whether the means adopted by Her Majesty's Go-
 981
 MR. LOWE  said, that when the Sebastopol Committee was nominated, he objected to it on the ground that the investigations upon which it was about to enter would, if they were to be complete, require the examination of witnesses necessarily absent upon the public service, and the raking up of matters which, from motives of public policy, ought not to be gone into; while, if they were to be incomplete, they must be grossly unjust to individuals, and in every respect unsatisfactory. He also objected that the appointment of the Committee would be an inroad upon the sta
 982 "The difficulty of this task has been enhanced by the impossibility of summoning some persons as witnesses who might have furnished important information. From the same cause some persons are left under imputations in regard to which your Committee regret that they can pronounce no conclusive opinion. The fulness of the investigation has, moreover, been restricted by considerations of State policy, so that in the outset of this Report, your Committee must admit that they have been compelled to end an inquiry which they have been unable satisfactorily to complete." 983 984 985 bouleversements 986
 THE MARQUESS OF GRANBY  said, he wished briefly to state the grounds of the vote which he should give on the present occasion. He thought it was impossible to deny many of the statements made by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield. They must all have felt that what the hon. and learned Gentleman had said as to the state of the army, and the sufferings the troops had undergone, was true, and could I not be denied. At the same time, he I could not but think that the hon. and learned Gentleman had somewhat magnified the sufferings, and had painted in colours deeper than the reality the hard ships which the army had undergone. In his opinion that House and the country had not fully considered the horrors and misery that must accompany every war, and that a forty years' peace had made them forgetful of them. The question was one which he considered ought to be treated in a calmer and juster spirit than the terms of the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman indicated. Though great sufferings had been endured, though great errors had been committed, if the House were to censure those who had been the cause of these sufferings and errors, they must not confine themselves to the Members either of the late Administration or of that which now existed. They must censure the House of Commons and the people of this country. The truth ought to be told. It was the House of Commons, backed by the people, that had reduced establishments. They had told the people that war was a delusion, and that the country would never again be engaged in a serious conflict with any foreign power. That was the true source of our late disasters in the East. He had endeavoured to warn the House at the time on that point. He had told them in former years that the best men, the blood and sinews of the country, were emigrating.
 987
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, there was one point on which the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield had not touched, and which was, nevertheless, well worthy of consideration. That was, the question whether the Cabinet were a distinct and separate body. Mr. Fox repudiated in the strongest terms the idea that it was possible to treat the Cabinet as a body separate from the rest of the Privy Council. He (Mr. Phillimore) declared it impossible
 988
 MR. GORDON  said, he rose with unfeigned reluctance to explain the vote which he felt compelled to give, being unfortunately unable to concur in any one of the three propositions before the House. The hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) had brought against persons, who had long served their Sovereign and the public, the gravest charges that could possibly be preferred. Those charges were directed against a Government which had ceased to exist, every individual Member of which it was now sought to visit with censure on the ground of the Report of a Committee of that House. In his opinion, the Resolution of the hon. and learned
Gentleman was not warranted by the evidence on which it was professed to be founded. Vast masses of evidence were laid before the Committee touching all manner of subjects, and, though much was connected with the condition of the army in the East, a great deal had very little to do with that question. While listening, as he did for several days, to the proceedings of that Committee, his heart sank within him when he considered what reputations were at stake, and how the characters of public men, who had grown grey in the service of their country, were being treated. Evidence of all kinds—second hand and hearsay—was admitted, such as no court of law, or strictly legal tribunal would have tolerated. It was a literal fact that what one captain told another captain, who told it to a friend, who was the captain of a third ship, and who told it to the Committee, was duly recorded. But, whether the value of the evidence was great or small, he contended nothing could justify the House in agreeing to the Resolution of the hon. Member for Sheffield, except the unanimous opinion of the Committee; and, so far from that being the case, they knew that the Resolution of condemnation was carried only by the casting vote of the Chairman. Some of the Members of the Committee expressed in the strongest terms their disapproval of the Resolution, and he confidently appealed to a majority of those who agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, whether they concurred in this vote of censure, and whether they thought it a desirable time to bring it forward when the Ministry had been displaced, and many Members of it had retired to a private position? An hon. Member had said, that the Motion did not profess to condemn the policy of the expedi-
 990 991
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, he would submit that it was the duty of the House to inquire into the causes of the strange fatality which had marked the whole progress of events with relation to the present war. How was it that every one who had been mixed up with the conduct of the war—every military and naval commander—every political leader and statesman, who had been involved in those transactions, had met with nothing but failure, disappointment, shipwrecked fortunes, and tarnished honour? He should like to be informed of the true causes of a fatality which appeared to him to be so marked and extraordinary. What a long catalogue of blighted reputations did one short twelve months offer for the consideration of the country. From the lowest to the highest, from the Filders and Andrew Smiths, up to the noble Lord the Member for the City of London (Lord J. Russell);
 992 particeps criminis, 993 994
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he should not have risen, but from the extraordinary silence of the Government upon perhaps one of the most important discussions which had ever engaged the attention of the British Senate. Last evening the noble Lord at the head of the Ministry was more than usually jaunty and pugnacious, and challenged the Opposition right and left, because he knew their arms were tied by the fact that the supporters of the Government had thrown over the Jonah to appease the storm; whereas to-night they attempted to shelter themselves from the discussion of the grave charges brought against Lord Aberdeen's Government, and, consequently, against a large portion of the present, by rushing to a precipitate division. That course was not consistent with the vaunting courage displayed by the noble Lord, Donnybrook fashion, last night. The Government could not well be acquitted unless they gave an assurance that there was not to be a repetition of the horrors of last year. He feared that as little had been done in the Baltic during the present year as last year, and that we were still launching enormous ships, which could not
 995 996 997 Laughter.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Sir, I have waited until the last moment in expectation that some Member of Her Majesty's Government would rise upon an occasion of such importance to indicate to the House the course which they thought ought to be pursued. I imagine that, considering the present advanced period of the Session, and the business which remains to be transacted, it is for the public advantage, and also in accordance with the wishes of the House, that this debate should be closed this evening. Unlike the hon. Gentleman who has just spoken, I opposed the appointment of the Committee, and unlike him I do not think that the evidence taken before the Sebastopol Committee sustains the Resolution of my hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Roebuck). Although I was a Member of the Government at the commencement of the war and during some period of its prosecution, and had made up my mind to vote against this Resolution, still I have waited with respectful attention to ascertain the course which the present Government, lately my colleagues, proposed to pursue, I have felt that, with
 998 "The fulness of the investigation has, moreover, been restricted by considerations of State policy, so that in the outset of this Report your Committee must admit that they have been compelled to end an inquiry which they hare been unable satisfactorily to complete." 999 "The British army was a portion of an allied force. The whole scheme of the siege, the extent of front to be defended, the positions to be maintained, and the works to be undertaken depended on military considerations, and were decided upon in conjunction with our allies. Your Committee regard these matters as beyond the limits of their inquiry." "The descent on the Crimea is decided upon more in deference to the views of the British Government than to any information in the possession of the naval and military authorities, either as to the extent of the enemy's forces or to their state of preparation." 1000 "The descent on the Crimea is decided upon more in deference to the views of the British Government, and the well-known acquiescence of the Emperor of the French." Assemblée Nationale, "But England was not engaged alone in that expedition. In order to judge with equity the conduct of the English Government, it is proper to know what was its share in the initiative and the decision; it is proper to know, in all their details, the circumstances under the pressure of which it was proposed, or deliberated, or resolved upon." And it makes these pregnant inquiries—"Does Mr. Roebuck reckon on proposing these questions? Are the Ministers prepared to answer them." 1001
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he was not anxious to renew any discussion on the painful subject of the appointment of the Committee. He was one of those who had objected originally to its appointment, but, when it had been determined by the House that inquiry should take place, he thought it would be inconsistent with his duty to shrink from serving upon it. It would have been bad enough for the country if they had lost confidence in the Government; but, it would have been still worse for the country if they had lost confidence in the House of Commons. He had looked upon it, therefore, as essential to the
 1002 "Your Committee believe that they would be shrinking from their duty were they to close their Report without naming to the House those whom the evidence points out as chiefly answerable for the great calamities to which our army in the Crimea was unduly subjected." 1003 "Your Committee are, however, of opinion that this amount of unavoidable suffering has been aggravated by causes hereafter enumerated, and which are mainly to be attributed to dilatory and insufficient arrangements for the supply of this army with necessaries indispensable to its healthy and effective condition." "It would seem from the language of Sir Hew Ross that he was imperfectly acquainted with the constitution of the Board of which he was a Member." 1004
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, like the right hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle (Sir J. Graham), I have waited till the last moment, under the idea that some Member of Her Majesty's Government would announce to the House the course which they intend to take with regard to this very important question. The right hon. Baronet has stated in manly and honourable language his views on the subject, and his reasons for the course which he is prepared to take this evening. Beyond all doubt the right hon. Baronet is personally interested in the vote to which the House must arrive; and I can understand the feeling—honourable to himself—which induces him to refuse to take shelter in any indirect proceeding like "the previous question," and to prefer that a direct vote should be given by this House. But what, Sir, is the course which Her Majesty's Government mean to take, and why have they adopted the unusual course of not announcing what they intend to do with reference to this Motion of the hon.
 1005 Cries of 1006 "1. The expedition to the Crimea was undertaken with means inadequate for the military operations which had eventually to be performed. 2. No provision was made in time for the wintering of the army. 3. No measures were taken for rendering effective the offices on the vigorous administration of which the success of all operations and the maintenance of the army depended. 4. There was a want of timely information as to the state of affairs in the Crimea and at Scutari. 5. One department, the Commissariat, was made to perform the duties of several departments. 6. An unfortunate selection was made of officers for important services before the daily increasing magnitude of the operations was foreseen." 1007 1008 1009 1010 prestige "Before the siege of a fortress so strong can be attempted it is necessary that information which can be relied on should be obtained upon many points upon which little or nothing is at present known." 1011 1012
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : Sir, I must confess that I was astonished at the opening sentence of the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down. I should have thought his memory would have served him for at least twenty-four hours, and that he would not have repeated the charge that was denied by those most competent to deny it, of our having shrunk last night from a vote of censure by sacrificing a colleague. I thought the noble Colleague himself and my noble Friend at the head of the Government stated, in terms as distinct as words could make them, that we were ready to fight the battle, and that we were perfectly prepared to resist the Motion of the hon. Baronet the Member for Hertfordshire (Sir B. Lytton), if he had brought it forward. The right hon. Gentleman is not more justified in saying that we are
 1013 1014 animus 1015 "The Commander of the Forces, Lord Raglan, is in a great degree immediately responsible for the sufferings of the army. Had the requisite firmness and foresight been shown by him, much of the misery resulting from the want of land transport, from the want of a road from Balaklava to the camp, from the want of an efficient ambulance, from insufficient and improper food, from the want of shelter, clothing, and fuel, might have been prevented." "That the probable failure of the communication was not, however, brought to the notice of the Duke of Newcastle, until too late to enable him to take measures in England to prevent the serious calamities which subsequently arose." 1016 1017 1018
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I hope that the House will come to a decision upon the question to-night.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that he had also hoped the House would have come to a decision on the question that night; but the reason why they could not come to a decision now was, the great delay that occurred before any Member of the Government rose to express his opinions. In consequence of the course which the Ministers had taken, he must confess he could not see how it was possible for the House to come to a decision upon the question that night.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he hoped that the Government would not put the House to the trouble of dividing upon the question of the adjournment of the debate. He did not know during the entire Session that they had a matter before them of such extreme importance as the present. He was not an advocate for long debates; but he thought that it was most reasonable to ask for the adjournment of the question. The Government had evidently wished to shirk the question, and had abstained until midnight from declaring what course they intended to take. The debate, he thought, might last a whole week to the advantage of the country.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that with regard to the observation of the right hon. Gentleman opposite as to no Member of the Government rising early in the debate, there were obvious reasons why they should give way to other persons who desired to express their opinions. If the sense of the House should be in favour of an adjournment, he would not oppose it; but he should have thought that the House was in a very good position to proceed with the debate.
 MR. SPOONER  said, there could be no reason why this debate should be adjourned. The question had been discussed very fully, and it was quite clear that any person who wished to have the debate adjourned merely wished to prevent the question being settled. He was only asking leave to bring in a Bill, although it was not likely that he would proceed with the Bill during the present Session. He wished to take the sense of the House whether they approved of the introduction of such a Bill. He hoped that those who agreed with him that this was a question which ought to be settled would vote with him.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that surely the hon. Member could not be serious in asking the House at that hour of the night (half past twelve o'clock) to resume a debate, which was likely to last many hours. Several Motions had been put off in consideration of the lateness of the hour, and he did not think that the hon. Member could expect them to proceed with the adjourned debate on Maynooth.
 MR. KIRK  said, he would now move that the debate be adjourned to that day three months.
 MR. LAYARD : I wish, Sir, to ask a question of the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government, of which I lave not given him notice. If, therefore, it is inconvenient for him to answer it now, I will repeat the question on some other occasion. A document has appeared in
 953
 MR. WALPOLE  brought up the Report of the Committee appointed to inquire into the nature of the contract entered into between Baron Lionel de Rothschild and Her Majesty's Government as respected the loan of 16,000,000 l.,
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I have not seen the papers to which the hon. Member refers, but I think I can answer his question. Certain arrangements were provisionally agreed to at the Vienna Conferences, with the clear understanding that they were parts of the whole, and Her Majesty's Government consider themselves free as regards the parts until the whole shall be settled, although, of course, we shall adhere to the principles on which the Four Points were founded. The treaty arrangements were only provisionally agreed to, and the two Governments of France and England must be free when they come to enter again into negotiations with regard to any arrangements to be made on those points. With respect to the intentions of Austria with regard to the occupation of the Principalities, the hon. Member and the House know that Austria has engaged by treaty with Turkey to defend the Principalities from any attack by Russia; therefore the occupation, whatever it be, can only be for the purpose of preventing any new invasion of the Principalities by Russia. As to any Commission sitting at Vienna, I am wholly ignorant of it. It is obvious that no Commission can be sitting with authority at Vienna, because the parties between whom arrangements for a peace should be made are the parties who would have to contract a treaty of peace—namely, Turkey, England, and France, on the one hand, with Austria, so far as she has entered into engagements, and Russia on the other. As to any protest against arrangements provisionally entered into, I am not aware that any has been made.
 MR. LLOYD DAVIES  said, he fully concurred in the opinion expressed by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner), in opposition to the proposed recommendation.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, that the reason why local representation was admitted was that the Committee should have the best information on the subject before them. Another reason was indeed alleged—that
 1023
 THE MARQUESS OF BLANDFORD  said, that, considering the state of the public business, and the impossibility of carrying the Bill to a successful termination during the present Session, he did not feel justified in taking up any further portion of the time of the House; he would beg, therefore, to move that the Order for the House to go into Committee be discharged. The House would, perhaps, permit him to make one or two observations connected with his reasons for taking that course. In the first place, however, he wished to correct a statement made by him
 1025 l. l. l l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1026
 MR. DE VERE,  in seconding the Amendment, said, that in his opinion, the Bill ought to be entitled one for giving facilities of ejectment to landlords, which was a principle that the House ought not to sanction.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said, he gave full credit to the opponents of the Bill for honesty of purpose, but he avowed that his only object was to improve the condition of the dwellings of the people, which was at present a disgrace, not only to the country, but to humanity. He must also deny that the effects of the measure would be to increase eviction and misery. The present condition of the law
 1029 l.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, that everybody must be satisfied that nothing but motives of humanity, and a desire to extend protection to the labouring classes of Ireland, who were more unprotected, even, than the tenantry, could have influenced the right hon. Baronet (Sir W.
 1030 a fortiori l.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he would admit there were two or three small alterations required, which might easily be made in Committee, but he would support the Bill on the ground of the social benefit which it must produce amongst the peasantry of Ireland. It would be advisable to provide that the magistrates deciding cases arising under it should not be justices interested in the premises. He might, perhaps, think some of the provisions of the Bill he had himself introduced three years ago superior; but he was not inclined to offer any obstruction to the measure on that account. Nothing was of so much importance as to elevate the social condition of the people, and the operation of the Bill would unquestionably be favourable to that object, by securing to the
 1031
 SIR THOMAS BURKE  said, he gave the measure his most hearty support. He had witnessed some of the most grievous cases of oppressive ejectments made under the present law in times of great distress, for which it was absolutely necessary to provide a remedy.
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, he thought the measure open to so many objections that it would involve the necessity of redrawing it with a great number of alterations. He should, therefore, support the Amendment for going into Committee on the Bill that day three months.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, he had heard no sufficient objections offered to the principle of the Bill, which he thought a valuable one—that of giving to a landlord who made an improved class of dwellings for his labourers the means of gaining repossession of his property. There could be no greater obstacle to the social and moral improvement of the labouring classes in Ireland than the present state of the law on that subject. The last Report of the Poor Law Commissioners bore testimony to a great improvement in the food and clothing of the lower classes, and also to an advance in the rate of wages, but stated at the same time that there were no signs of any improvement in their dwellings. At present the labourer erected a miserable mud cabin, which it was lamentable to contemplate as a place for the abode of human beings. That was the result of the present system. He earnestly hoped that the House would go into Committee on
 1032
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he thought the period at which they had arrived was too late for making effective progress with the Bill, and that the best course would be for the right hon. Baronet to adopt the suggestion made to him for the withdrawal of it. The question was of too great importance to the welfare of the labouring classes of Ireland, to be disposed of in a summary way, and ought to be settled by a Bill introduced by the Government. The present measure was open to many objections, and, in his opinion, had no chance of reaching the House of Lords.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he believed the Bill to be one highly conducive to the interests of the poorer classes of Ireland, and he hoped the Irish Members would not interpose to prevent its passing. There was a general want of the conveniences which the Bill proposed to provide in the houses of the labouring classes in Ireland, and it would, therefore, be a great advantage to them that it should become law.
 MR. KENNEDY  said, he objected to such a vast power of removing tenants as that conferred by the Bill being given to the landlords at the present period of the Session. It would be to promote a gipsy population in the country; and he should, therefore, oppose the measure by every means in his power.
 MR. FAGAN  said, the great danger of the Bill was to those holders of the franchise in counties who were resident in country towns. The Bill gave the landlord the power to remove them from their tenancy on three months' notice, which would, in fact, enable the landlord to regulate and control the franchise whenever a county election came on.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he could not avoid expressing his regret that they were about to go to a division. The right hon. Baronet (Sir W. Somerville) was entitled to great credit for the effort he had made to improve the existing law, but his measure was open to some objections. The first was, that the Bill should not apply to that class of tenements conferring the elective franchise. The next was, that it should confer a right of appeal to quarter sessions. Were those objections removed, they must all concur in the object of the right hon. Baronet, but if he intended that
 1033
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said, it would be useless to assent to any proposal which he thought would defeat the object of the Bill. He should have preferred going into Committee on the Bill, and seeing its clauses discussed. A single instance of the operation of the Summary Jurisdiction Act was not known as regarded the elective franchise. The objection to the Bill, therefore, on that ground was idle.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, two objections had been raised to the Bill; but he would ask whether both those objections were not objections most proper to be discussed in Committee? He was satisfied that the feeling of the House would require the insertion of the provisions in question.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, he very much admired the conduct of Government throughout the progress of the measure, which was just and equitable, and deserved support. If, however, the important Amendments sketched by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland were not inserted, there could be no hope of the Bill passing that Session. He approved of the objects of the Bill, but unless the propositions of Government were acceded to, he must vote against it going into Committee.
 LORD NAAS  said, he did not wholly approve of the conduct of Government, and the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland was so mysterious that it was impossible to collect what his vote would be. He believed the Bill likely to contribute to the comfort and happiness of the labouring classes of Ireland, and that it was therefore desirable that it should be passed as soon as possible. He thought it would be quite easy to discuss in Committee the Amendments which it was desired to introduce into it.
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, he thought it would be better that the Bill should be withdrawn now, and be reintroduced in a more perfect form next Session.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that as the noble Lord had determined to withdraw the Bill, he thought it was very inconvenient to continue the discussion.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he thought that, carrying out the principle which had been acted on for some years of making Committees as independent as possible, it would be right to exclude all members locally interested from taking part in the proceedings of Committees. Local members ought to be excluded, because, as judges, they were not to have a voice; as advocates, they would be objectionable, because no opportunity would be afforded for replying to their arguments; and, as witnesses, they would be obnoxious to the same objection that the other side could have no opportunity of cross-examination. He did not think the presence of local members was at all requisite, as in the cases of Railway Bills, where local interests were left unrepresented on the Committee, no complaints had ever been made that local interests had suffered thereby.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he was glad to hear the right hon. Baronet intimate that a Commission of inquiry ought to be instituted into the proceedings of the Ecclesiastical Commission. He must, however, take exception to one remark which fell from his noble Friend (the Marquess of Blandford). He could not agree with the opinion which his noble Friend had expressed that the Report of the Cathedral Commission had thrown no new light upon the subject which the Bill of his noble Friend embraced.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, that in a case in which his constituents were concerned, the amount of fees which were required to enable the parties to appear, either by themselves or counsel, was tantamount to a denial of justice.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he was glad that the noble Lord had, for that Session at least, withdrawn the Bill, to which he (Mr. Pellatt) entertained the strongest objections. The Ecclesiastical Commissioners had, in his opinion, betrayed their trusts by taking Queen Ann's Bounty, which was intended for the benefit of the working clergy, and appropriating it to the building of bishops' palaces.
 MR. FRENCH  said, that without offering any opinion as to the expediency of the proposed alteration, he would beg to direct the attention of the hon. Baronet to the unnecessary fees exacted on the bringing Bills before the House. It was very well
 1021
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he thought that some steps should be taken to relieve private parties, whose interests were affected by private Bills, from the heavy expense to which they were now subject.
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he concurred in the recommendation to exclude local members, and would take that opportunity of remarking that he considered the present system of examining witnesses before Committees of that House to be extremely objectionable. He believed that persons examined in that House without the administration of any oath gave very different evidence from that which they would give before the House of Lords, where they were sworn.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, he felt great doubts of the expediency of the alteration, as he was convinced many useful Bills would have been lost had not the local Members been present to supply information, which the Committee could obtain from no other source. If local Members were deprived of the power of taking part in the proceedings, they would cease to attend the Committees, and the interests of their constituents would in many cases suffer.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he objected to the recommendation of the Committee as unconstitutional. It went to deprive local Members of the means of attending to those interests which they were meant particularly to represent—it would lead to great inconvenience on the part of the House, and it would induce to the canvassing for support amongst Members of Committees by the promoters of Bills when they found they were debarred of the presence and assistance of their local Members; and in addition, it would promote the discussion of the Reports of Committees on Private Bills—a result hitherto avoided as much as possible.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he trusted that when the noble Marquess again introduced his Bill he would make some provision for protecting the rights of the lessees under the Church.
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he differed from the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Muntz), with respect to the administration of oaths, and thought the proper alteration would be to abolish the administration of oaths in the House of Lords, and thus harmonize the practice of the two Houses.
 MR. SOTHERON  said, he believed the decisions of Committees would give more satisfaction, if, after the parties were requested to withdraw, they did not see that the local Members remained to influence those decisions. It would be far better for the character of the tribunal that information should be given by witnesses, and not by Members, who had no power to give a vote in the Committee. He could assure the hon. Member for Roscommon (Mr. French) that the Standing Orders Committee wished cordially that some means could be found for diminishing the fees; but that question had not been referred to them. As to protecting the public against the arrangements of rival parties, whose interests were distinct from the interests of localities, he considered it part of the duty of every Committee to watch over the public interests. He hoped the House would agree in the alteration,
 1022
 MR. THORNELY  said, he could not help thinking that some advantage was derivable from the presence of local Members upon a Committee, although that position was disagreeable to the hon.
 1024
 MR. BARROW  said, he would suggest that local Members should be permitted to be present in Committees, in order to ask questions and hear the discussions, but should be excluded, together with the public, when the Committee came to consider a Report.
 MR. DEEDES  said, he was of opinion that local interests would not be left unguarded by the proposed change, and he would recommend the hon. Member for North Wiltshire (Mr. Sotheron) to adopt the suggestion of the hon. Member for South Nottinghamshire, Mr. Barrow.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought the noble Marquess had exercised a wise discretion in having determined not to proceed further with the Bill that Session, considering the many important Amendments of which notice had been given, and which, if discussed, would have afforded very little chance of the measure obtaining the assent of Parliament before the prorogation. Under the circumstances, he would not say a word on the subject of the Bill itself, but he entirely concurred in what had fallen from the noble Marquess as to the importance of maturely considering the constitution of the body to whom was to be intrusted the discharge of the
 1027
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, if the hon. Chairman of the Committee assented to the suggestions of the hon. Member for South Nottinghamshire he (Sir G. Grey) should not dissent, but he really thought the preponderance of argument was in favour of the proposal of the Committee. He thought it would be humiliating to Members of that House to be allowed to attend upon Committees, but to be turned out of the room whenever the public was ordered to withdraw. If the principle was to be adopted that local members were not to influence Committees, except as witnesses, then they ought only to be allowed to appear as witnesses. The majority of the House appeared to be in favour of the Resolution of the Committee of Revision, and he thought it would be desirable to come to a decision upon that point.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to ask whether, if Members were to be called upon to give evidence as witnesses, they would be required to pay the fee of three guineas for the privilege? He wished the House would turn its attention to the enormous expense attending proceedings before Select Committees.
 SIR ROBERT FERGUSSON  said, he differed from the opinions expressed by the right hon. Gentleman. Local members were excluded from Railway Committees because the local interests affected by those Bills were so extensive that they could not be completely represented. He thought upon Private Bills the presence of local members was an advantage, and therefore he hoped the House would not deprive them of the power of examining witnesses.
 SIR JOHN DUCKWORTH  said, that as Chairman of the Committee, he would support the suggested alteration; but at the same time he must confess that he was much surprised the country had not taken exception to the present practice long ago.
 MR. ROBERT PHILLIMORE  said, he regarded the subject as one of considerable importance, as affecting the purity of the decisions of that House. The presence of local Members was undesirable, and he considered it would be useless to adopt the suggestion of the hon. Member for South Nottinghamshire, as it would fail to produce unanimity upon the present occasion.
 MR. ROBERT PHILLIMORE  said, he considered that the noble Lord had made an unfair attack upon the Report of the Cathedral Commission, and he should be sorry that the observation of the noble Lord should go forth to the country without any counter-statement. That Report had, at all events, established one important fact—namely, that the parochial institutions and episcopal institutions of the country were not at variance, but were in harmony with each other.
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, for the sake of unanimity he was willing to adopt the suggestion of the hon. Member for Nottinghamshire (Mr. Barrow) as a step in advance, for he believed that it could not be a final arrangement.
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  brought up the Annual Report of the Select Committee for the Revision of Standing Orders and stated that the alterations recommended were principally to make the Standing Orders of the two Houses as far as possible agree. The chief alteration which the Committee recommended was in the eighth Standing Order—that for the future no Members locally interested should be Members of a Committee on an opposed Bill. In all the changes which had been made for many years past the aim had been to give Committees an entirely judicial character, and that was the object of the proposed alteration. Local Members now stood in the anomalous position of having power to interfere, without any responsibility or share in the decisions of the Committee. In the case of an unopposed Bill, it was referred to the Chairman of Ways and Means, and he was assisted by one of the Members whose name was on the back of the Bill; but when Bills were opposed, it could only be necessary to resort for advice to local Members in such, few instances that they were amply provided for by the power of any Member to attend in any Committee-room. Local Members would not be deprived of any right as Members of Parliament, but would have the opportunity of directing the attention of the House to any mistakes which they conceived the Committee had made in their Report. For these reasons, he should move that the House agree to the recommendation.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, any one who came into this assembly for the first time, ignorant of what has been going on among us during the last few months, and who listened to the speech of the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, must have thought the transactions which he was inquiring into had reference to an existing Administration, and not to one long past and gone. The hon. Gentleman has pointed out in what respect, in his opinion, the head of the Administration of that time, when the events to which the Motion has reference occurred, was guilty
 1055 1056 1057 1058 Cries of 1059 1060 1061 1062 "The Commander of the Forces, Lord Raglan, by his want of vigour and foresight, is in a great degree responsible for the sufferings of the army. Had the requisite firmness and prudence been shown by him, much of the misery resulting from the want of land transport, from the want of a road from Balaklava to the camp, from the want of an efficient ambulance, from insufficient and improper food, from the want of shelter, clothing, and fuel, might have been prevented. It is but too plain that Lord Raglan did not not keep the Administration at home duly informed of the actual condition of the army under his command. By the statement of Lord Aberdeen himself it appears that the Commander of the Forces failed in this part of his duty, and therefore, in so far as the wants and sufferings of the army resulted from the continued ignorance of the Administration, Lord Raglan is responsible for the misery which was the consequence of that ignorance." 1063 1064 1065
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : I beg the hon. and learned Gentleman's pardon, but I never for a moment insisted on the proposition which he has imputed to me. All I said was, that I thought it extremely hard that the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Roebuck) should praise those other Members of the Cabinet to whom the administration of the War Departments were intrusted, and should seek to visit his severest censure on the head of the noble Lord who held the office of Home Secretary.
 CAPTAIN GLADSTONE  said, although he was a very humble Member of the Committee, and was not appointed until an advanced period of the investigation, he wished to state the reasons which would induce him to vote against the Resolution of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck). He had no desire to serve on the Committee, both because he thought his position in the House was not such as to entitle him to be appointed, and because from personal considerations, which would be understood by the House, he was, he considered, in a great measure, disqualified from entering into the inquiry. He had left town, and on his return was
 1127 1128 1129 1130
 LORD SEYMOUR : No record kept of stores, either medical or belonging to the purveyor.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : The noble Lord asked me—
 "Then, with regard to the apothecary, who, at least, if he did not give medicines, ought to have
 1140 1141 "At the date of the expedition to the East no reserve was provided at home adequate to the undertaking. Mr. Sidney Herbert states, in his memorandum of the 27th of November, 'The army in the East has been created by discounting the future. Every regiment at home, or within reach, and not forming part of that army, has been robbed to complete it. The depôts of battalions under Lord Raglan have been similarly treated.'" Moniteur "The men sent out to reinforce the army were recruits who had not yet become fit for foreign service, and the depôts at home were too weak to feed the companies abroad. The order to attack Sebastopol was sent to Lord Raglan on the 29th of June; the formation of a reserve at Malta was not determined upon until early in November." "Your Committee must express their regret that the formation of a large reserve at home,
 1142 "You also stated yesterday, that the recruits which had been sent out had been, in a large degree, raw recruits—very young men; I wish to understand more distinctly what was the nature of the arrangement made by the Government with regard to the recruiting of the army after the expedition to Sebastopol was ordered after the 29th of June; there was no reserve, was there?—Yes; there was a reserve at that time. I have already explained that; it has been insisted upon several times in this Committee that there was no reserve; whether it was an adequate reserve is a matter of opinion; but that there was a reserve is undoubtedly the fact; in the first instance, I said that from the first moment when the expedition sailed there was a reserve, what was called the 'reserved division,' which was subsequently Sir George Cathcart's division, amounting to between 60,000 and 7,000 men; and when they left the country there was a further reserve. I do not recollect the amount at that time, but it subsequently amounted to 10,000 men, the whole of which number was sent out to Lord Raglan after the battle of Inkerman; therefore up to that time there was a considerable reserve." 1143 "When that force was sent to the East, you also organised reserves to maintain it in a state of efficiency up to that time?—Yes." "That was, during the last year, the state in which it was considered necessary to maintain our military force in the East?—Certainly. I can show that the first reserve under Sir George Cathcart, composed of seven battalions and 6,000 men, was ready in September, and they had arrived at Varna at that time, and in my opinion, instead of remaining as a reserve nearer home, they did right in immediately joining the army, and aiding Lord Raglan at the battle of the Alma with that additional force. Of course we all agree that it is much better, when you are going on an expedition of that kind, to have 6,000 more men than to leave them at Varna; because, though people do talk of the propriety of having a reserve, it is always found in practice to be very desirable to fight as many men as you can upon a given point. The Duke of Wellington, as is well known, in his first campaign, in the operations at Assaye, detached Colonel Stevenson, leaving himself with only 5,000 men, and Colonel Stevenson with 6,000—and the Duke fought the battle of Assaye with half his force, but he never repeated that experiment. In his subsequent career he always brought up to fight the largest force on the most important point; therefore, the Duke of Newcastle was right in bringing the reserve under Sir George Cathcart to bear upon the expedition in the Crimea." 1144 1145 1146 The Times, civium ardor prava jubentium, 1147 1148 prestige 1149 1150
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : I hope, Sir, that the House will be inclined to grant me its indulgence on a subject with which I am particularly connected, and upon which, therefore, I am more than usually anxious to receive that indulgence. In the first place, let me state that it is my intention to vote against the Motion of my hon. and gallant Friend opposite (General Peel), and I will tell the House why in a very few sentences. Personally I stand in a position different from that of most hon. Members, being one against whom, in the words of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Sheffield, counts of an indictment have been preferred. It has been said I and my friends near me attempted to burke the appointment of this Committee; that we were afraid of the investigation; that we shrank from an examination of our conduct. If we laboured under such a suspicion it shall not be said that, when that investigation was completed, we shrank from meeting the verdict of the House of Commons upon the evidence laid before them. I cast no
 1133 "If you look, after all, at the  résumé 1134 1135 1136 1137 "With reference to the last part of the above statement, I beg to observe that the daily issues to the division in December and January are shown in the two statements forwarded by me some time back, and that such issues were made between morning and night of each day; the supplies short issued in the beginning of the fortnight were not, therefore, made up by supplies served out in the latter part of it." Opinione, "Arriving here, I thought to find the English army in a miserable condition. But imagine my surprise to behold a magnificent army, largely provided with everything you can imagine, full of enthusiasm, and complete in discipline." 1138 "You have stated that you have received reports from our Consuls in the East as to the condition of the Russians in Odessa and the Crimea?" He answers, "I did." They ask, "Would it be unadvisable to submit these Reports to the Committee?" and he answers, "I think so; but I should not have the slightest objection to give a sufficient outline, in the first instance, of the Reports." "Had you no information from anybody in the Crimea; we had no Consul there; had we, anywhere nearer than Kertch?" His answer is, "No. Odessa is on the one side and Kertch on the other." 1139
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Wiltshire (Mr. S. Herbert) had implored the House and entreated the Government
 1163 bonâ fide 1164
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I think the hon. and learned Gentleman must have known what Lord Raglan's letter contained, and that there was a suppression. It may not have served the purpose of condemnation, but I think even in mercy if not in justice he should have given those he was accusing the benefit of that which he knew to be the fact. But the hon. and learned Gentleman accuses the Members of Lord Aberdeen's Cabinet of having been absent from London for a considerable time, with certain exceptions. Well, that I may speak of by and by, as to whether it is a charge which the House ought to entertain; but at least the hon. and learned Gentleman should have stated the charge correctly. Now, what was it that the hon. and learned Gentleman asked? He said, "Why were you not at your posts? Your army was dwindling away; cold, hunger, and tempest were coming upon them, and yet you were not at your posts; and are these the men (said the hon. and learned Gentleman), who thus forget their duty, to be entrusted to conduct the affairs of the country?" The hon. and learned Gentleman tried to make an effect by urging this point, and he did make an effect, because loud cheers followed the assertion of the hon. and learned Gentleman, that while cold, hunger, and tempest were afflicting the army the Members of Lord Aberdeen's Cabinet were absent from their posts. Now, what was the fact? Why, the Members of that Cabinet, with some exceptions, were absent from London from between the 12th and 14th of August to the 15th or 16th of October, when all were again present in London. Now, I ask the hon. and learned Gentleman whether it was before the 17th of October that cold, hunger, and tempest had assailed the army? Were we absent from our posts while the army was dwindling away? The hon. and learned Gentleman knows it was not so. But the hon. and learned Gentleman knowing that for
 1088 1089 1090 1091 1092 1093 1094 1095 1096 1097 1098 1099 "Something yet remains to be said upon one topic, on which much stress has been laid by our accusers—the policy of marking with extraordinary severity a failure so disastrous as this is represented to have been of an enterprise (as it is averred) so rashly undertaken." 1100 "Sir, of this policy, as a matter distinct from justice—I take the liberty to entertain great doubts. I doubt whether the vice of the British Constitution and Government be a too great proneness to undertake splendid and daring enterprises, or its main perfection and uncommon facility for conducting the operations of war. There is enough already, as it appears to me, both of difficulty to impede and of responsibility to daunt any Administration in this country to whom the conduct of a war is intrusted, and when that war is to be carried on against such an enemy as him with whom we have to contend at present, it s not, in my humble opinion, politic to go one step beyond what justice may prescribe to enhance that difficulty and press the weight of that responsibility upon the Government. Possibly I might think, that even to stop something short of an extreme and vigorous account might be the more politic alternative of the two. We have to contend against an enemy who, with whatever qualifications he may be endowed by nature, has full scope and play given to all his faculties and views by the unlimited power, the irresponsible freedom with which he acts. He asks no consent, he renders no account. He wields at will the population and resources of a mighty empire and its dependent States. His successes are magnified with enthusiasm, his failures silently passed over. And against this unity of counsel and this liberty of action, we have to contend under the disadvantages of a mixed and complicated Government. Disadvantages in this respect they are, though happily and gloriously redeemed and compensated by the great and manifold blessings of a constitution unequalled by any other system of human policy in the history of the world. Secrecy of design, celerity of execution, a boldness of adventure arising from fearlessness of responsibility for ill success are the qualities the most useful for the vigorous prosecution of military operations. They are advantages which our despotic adversary enjoys in the most eminent degree. They are those which a free Government necessarily wants. I doubt whether it be politic to aggravate the inequality of such a contest by a severity of scrutiny and a hardness of animadversion upon failure which, by making responsibility too heavy to be borne, has a tendency to make all enterprise too hazardous to be attempted. Neither, again, while I admit and lament the failure of this expedition, can I agree with those who consider the disappointment of a great object of national policy as synonymous with national disgrace, and as pregnant with national ruin."—[1  Hansard, 1101
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I rise, Sir, to speak on this great question without any wish to diminish or undervalue, still less to escape any part of the responsibility which I feel I have incurred. I will not, therefore, accept for myself, and I hope my noble Friend the First Minister of the Crown will not accept, the excuse made by the hon. and learned Attorney General, that the head of the present Administration occupied, at the time this expedition was conceived and sent on its mission, the post of Secretary of State for the Home Department. Sir, it is my belief, and I know not any constitutional authority which can the least impugn that belief, that every Member of Lord Aberdeen's Cabinet is and remains responsible for that expedition, and the conduct of it, so long as he remained a member of that Administration. This, however, is a great question of justice and of policy. I say, a great question of justice and of policy, because, though no doubt it is a question of justice, it is not a question of justice only. The House of Commons, in its deliberative capacity, holding within its scope and directing by its vote the men and the measures which are to govern this great country, has always to consider, first, what the precise justice of a case requires; and next, to what decision it is expedient to come with a view to the general interests of the country. I remember a distinguished Member of this House, who was a Member of it at the time of the Walcheren expedition, and who was not friendly to the Ministers who undertook that expedition—Mr. William Elliott—a man distinguished no less by his virtues than by his talents—I remember he told me he thought the House of Commons had come to a decision on the Walcheren expedition in conformity with the wishes of the country, because, although the country found much
 1086 1087
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I have less unwillingness to rise at this late hour, as I shall only trespass on the attention of the House for a few moments. I cannot, however, agree to give a vote upon a question which presents itself in so ambiguous and unsatisfactory a state as the present without attempting to explain the motives which induce me to take the course which I feel it is my duty to adopt. Sir, we have heard much in the course of this discussion of party Motions, of party feelings, and of party objects; but, if I were to choose a Motion which would be convenient to party objects—if I were to select a course for the Administration to follow which would tend to strengthen the Opposition—it would be the course about to be adopted by the Government to-night, and it would be the Motion they are about to support. Here we have, according to the description of the noble Lord, a Motion made in this House of censure upon the Government. How is that met by the Government? It is met by the Government by a form of the House which practically and literally means that the House declines to express either confidence or want of confidence in the Government. When a Motion of a want of confidence or of censure is brought forward against the Government, their defence is simply to ask the House only to decide, not to proceed with the controversy. Now, I think the Opposition might fairly be satisfied with such a result, and, when taunted with party objects and party motives, it appears to me, if we had only party objects in view we need not have prolonged this debate, but might
 1176 1177 "It is perfectly untrue that most of the Members of the Government were always absent from London last autumn; but there was always an official Cabinet here; and if I was not here, I could always come at a moment's notice. "Your Committee notice with regret that the Cabinet did not meet in August or September, when these omissions might have been sooner remedied. Lord John Russell also observes, that 'the House of Commons would expect, after six or seven months' deliberation, a final arrangement of the War Department.' Your Committee can find no trace of these deliberations, and any evils that may have resulted from delay in such arrangements are, therefore, properly laid to the charge of the Cabinet." 1178 1179 1180 1181 1182 1183
 MR. ELLICE  (Coventry)  said, it had not been his intention to intrude upon the indulgence of the House, but in justice to the Sebastopol Committee he felt called upon to make some reply to the criticism of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Droitwich, who, when he quoted certain opinions from the original draught of the Report laid before the Committee by his noble Friend (Lord Seymour), must have forgotten that he objected to those words which related to the expedition to the Crimea. His noble Friend and himself wished to avoid with the greatest care all reference to the expedition to the Crimea, and it was on that ground that
 1151 1152 l. l. 1153
 MR. MUNTZ  said, that he rose to state why he felt compelled to vote for the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield. It appeared very strange to him that, as there was great fault somewhere, as there were great disasters, troubles, and losses, and as the whole nation was ringing with complaints, it appeared strange that there was no one in fault. He would then ask at the outset a very simple and plain question—he wanted to know who was in fault? There never was smoke without fire; and he was certain that, in this case, where there had been so much mismanagement, some one was to blame, though he did not pretend to say who those individuals were. In private houses, when anything was broken or went amiss, it was said that "the cat did it;" and the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster (Sir De Lacy Evans) had partly let a cat out of the bag when he said that Sir Charles Trevelyan had made so few preparations for moving the troops; but how many more cats there were to be let out, he could not say. He did not think that it was necessary to go through the evidence of the Sebastopol Committee, or to refer to the information given by the Press, to ascertain whether the late Government was to blame—it was only necessary for them to read the letter of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London to Lord Aberdeen, in which it was urged that the present Prime Minister should be Minister for War. From that letter it was evident that the noble Lord thought that the war was not carried on with sufficient energy. He (Mr. Muntz) considered that all the Members of the late Government were to blame; he could not admit that only one was to blame, as then all the censure might might be thrown upon some
 1131 1132
 MR. MILNES GASKELL  said, it appeared to him that the real question before the House, if stripped of the various disguises with which it had been found convenient to surround it, was a very simple one. It was whether the majority of the House of Commons which had voted with the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Roebuck) for the appointment of the Sebastopol Committee was prepared to ratify the decision at which that Committee had arrived. The Committee had been appointed by an immense majority; a most arduous duty had been imposed upon them—a duty which in his (Mr. Gaskell's) opinion they had discharged with great fairness and great ability—abstaining, and justly abstaining, as far as possible, from the inculpation of absent men, but not hesitating to affix blame in other quarters where they had thought blame was due; and not shrinking from the expression of their opinion that Her Majesty's late Government had been primarily responsible for the difficulties and disasters which had occurred. He owned, however, that he should have been better pleased, if the language of the Resolution before the House had been somewhat different—if it had been directed somewhat more distinctly against the head of the Administration which it censured, and somewhat less invidiously against other Members of the Government—but if the only alternatives that were before them were on the one hand the adoption of this Resolution, as worded by the hon. and learned Gentleman, and on the other hand a vote of confidence in the late Administration, or a refusal to express any opinion upon the subject, he for one could have no hesitation
 1052 1053 1054 "Nil Claudiæ non perficient manus; ''Quas … curæ sagaces Expediunt per acuta belli."
 MR. WHITESIDE : I should be sorry
 1081 1082 1083 1084 1085
 MR. WHITESIDE : If ever a question
 1066 1067 1068 "The men were overworked, occasionally not well fed, had not sufficient clothing, and were exposed, under single canvas, to wet, cold, and the mud, and inconvenience arising from the nature of the soil. The men in hospital, in addition to much of this suffering, were not adequately provided with sufficient medical attendance, medicine, and medical comforts. There was some delay in removing the wounded from the field after the Battle of the Alma, and as it always must have been contemplated to employ vessels to convey the sick and wounded from the Crimea, there appears to have been great neglect in not properly preparing any for the purpose. This calamitous state of things was the result, mainly of the Administration having unwisely engaged in great military operations with reduced peace establishments, and having, with inadequate means, undertaken more than they were able to perform." "There is, however, one bright spot in this dark picture. The patience and fortitude of the army demand the admiration and gratitude of the nation on whose behalf they have fought, bled and suffered. Their heroic valour, and equally heroic patience under suffering and privation, have given them claims on their country which a grateful nation will doubtless be eager to satisfy. 1069 1070 1071 "It appears that the sufferings of the army resulted mainly from the circumstances in which the expedition to the Crimea was undertaken and executed. The Administration which ordered that expedition had no adequate information as to the amount of force in the Crimea or Sebastopol. They were not acquainted with the strength of the fortresses to be attacked, or with the resources of the country to be invaded. They hoped and expected that the expedition would be immediately successful, and, as they did not foresee the probability of a protracted struggle, they made no provision for a winter campaign; what was planned and undertaken without sufficient information was conducted without sufficient care or forethought. This conduct on the part of the Administration was the first and chief cause of the calamities which befell our army." "Your Committee have inquired what information the Government had obtained which induced them to order this expedition. In regard to this matter, it may be observed that the Duke of Newcastle had, in his despatch of the 10th of April, estimated the Russian forces in the Crimea at 30,000 men, and he believes that when the expedition was ordered no more reliable accounts had been received. Sir James Graham says, however, that at a later period—namely, the last week in July—he had obtained 'from a Crimean authority a complete account of the Crimea, its localities, its harbours, its roads, its productions, and supply of water, and, what was most important of all, a statement of the force, which was estimated by his informant at 70,000 men, 8,000 of which were cavalry, 40,000 constituted the garrison of Sebastopol, and the remaining 30,000 were dispersed through the Crimea.' Vice Admiral Dundas had, on the 10th of May, 1854, written to Lord Raglan a letter in which, relying upon information which he had obtained, he estimated the
 1072 "Sir J. Pakington.—Your Grace's despatch to Lord Raglan of the 10th of April suggested several very important inquiries as to the forces of the Russian army in the Crimea, the strength of the fortress of Sebastopol, and other points. I wish to know whether you received any information in answer to these inquiries?—No. I may say that in the very despatch which the Committee has decided to move for, Lord Raglan says he has not been able to obtain any of the information required by my despatch." "Have you Lord Raglan's replies to your despatch?—I have one here dated July 19, from Varna." "Having stated to your Grace the result of the discussion which took place yesterday, and which, was carried on in a manner quite satisfactory to all the parties present, it becomes my duty to acquaint you that it was more in deference to the views of the British Government, as conveyed to me in your Grace's despatch, and to the known acquiescence of the Emperor Louis Napoleon in those views, than to any information in the possession of the naval and military authorities, either as to the extent of the enemy's forces or to their state of preparation, that the decision to make a descent upon the Crimea was adopted." 1073 "We have it in evidence that the right hon. Gentleman then at the head of the Admiralty was informed that the Russian army at Sebastopol consisted of 70,000 men, 40,000 of whom formed the garrison of the fortress and 30,000 of whom were in the field. I may venture to make this observation, that if we seriously intended to invest Sebastopol, besides having a covering army in the field, our besieging force ought to have amounted to three times the number of the troops by whom the fortifications were surrounded. I think, then, we may be satisfied of the injudiciousness, may, of the absolute rashness, of our proceedings." 1074 "The difficulty of this task has been enhanced by the impossibility of summoning some persons as witnesses who might have furnished important information. From the same cause some persons are left under imputations in regard to which your Committee regret that they can pronounce no conclusive opinion. The fulness of the investigation has, moreover, been restricted by considerations of State policy." "The fulness of the investigation has, moreover, been restricted by considerations of State policy, so that, in the outset of this Report, your Committee must admit that they have been compelled to end an inquiry which they have been unable satisfactorily to complete." 1075 1076 1077 "When I stand here to justify my resignation, and when I am told, as I have been that I have acted prematurely, I own that the doubt that presses on my mind is, whether I ought not at that time to have brought the question of this charge to an issue. But among those who urged me not to do so was the noble Lord himself, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, who at the time when the correspondence took place was absent, but to whom I afterwards read it. He urged me, considering the objection which had been made by Lord Aberdeen, not to press the matter any further." 1078 "This night the right hon. Gentleman, unable to oppose the propriety of the course we have pursued, ventures to attribute certain motives to Gentlemen on this side of the House. He tells us that inquiry is not our aim, but that we are endeavouring to procure a vote of this House against Ministers—in order to procure their removal from office, and pave the way for our own elevation to power. And in the very breath in which he makes this charge he laughs us to scorn for our unjustified confidence and signal disappointment. We know that the enemy has said that it was the genius of France conducted the British armies to Walcheren in the last expedition. But no! it was not the genius of France, it was the demon of England, nurtured into malignant influence by the base dissensions and unprincipled cabals of a weak, divided, insincere, and incapable Administration—an Administration, ill thought of by all, suspected by themselves, and despised by the country—an Administration, a constituent member of which was engaged in a low and unmanly conspiracy to expel from station another constituent member of it; an Administration, at the head of which now stands this Minister, who through an intrigue of this base, ungenerous, and unmixed quality, was in progress for months, has been obliged in this House to offer up his own defence, that he was innocent because he was ignorant? This is the picture which he and his colleagues have drawn of themselves. What need was there that genius should confound what unequalled ignorance had devised? What needed our enemy to interpose his great power or his greater abilities when he had our Ministers for auxiliaries? Why array the highest talents to oppose the efforts of incapacity the most evident to frustrate the councils of insincerity the most degrading? Behold at the head of the nation's councils a Minister who, knowing that, after this intrigue for months had terminated in an agreement to remove a colleague from an active and efficient situation in the Cabinet, under the alleged imputation of his incapacity to discharge the functions of office, yet still suffered him, though thus pronounced incapable, to retain for months his office of War Secretary, upon no other ground save that he could not reconcile the communication to his feelings. Where were his feelings for the people of England? Where were they for the liberties of Europe, whilst he suffered an incapable Minister to remain in office? Where did the feelings of the right hon. Gentleman slumber when the best blood of the empire was shed to putrify in the poisonous air of Walcheren—there, amidst pestilence and death to linger, and to perish, in order to afford a colourable pretext to the noble Lord for retaining office until the Minister of England could reconcile to his feelings the communication of the noble Lord's (Lord
 1079 Hansard, 1080 "Some modern writers have blamed Halifax for continuing in the Ministry while he disapproved the manner in which both domestic and foreign affairs were conducted. But this censure is unjust. Indeed, it is to be remarked that the word 'Ministry,' in the sense in which we use it, was then unknown. The thing itself did not exist, for it belongs to an age in which Parliamentary government is fully established. At present the chief servants of the Crown form one body; they are understood to be on terms of friendly confidence with each other, and to agree as to the main principles in which the executive Administration ought to be conducted. If a slight difference of opinion arises among them it is easily compromised; but if one of them differs from the rest on a vital point, it is his duty to resign. While he retains his office he is responsible even for the steps which he has tried to dissuade his colleagues from taking."
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I shall occupy the House only a few minutes while I explain my view of the Motion which my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Sheffield has submitted to the House. I am one of those who did not vote for the Committee which was appointed upon his Motion, and I did not vote for it on this ground—that I thought I perceived in the words of the
 1102 1103 1104 1105 1106 The Times 1107 l. "I don't think you can take Sebastopol by sea. It would cost sacrifices which you neither can afford nor risk. And as to taking it by land, to take an entrenched camp, linked by terrible fortresses, and an army for garrison in it, and new armies pouring into your flank and rear—and you in the plains of the Crimea, with almost no cavalry to resist them—that is such an undertaking
 1108 The Times The Times The Times "It is very obvious, on the first sight, that this great Sebastopol, that seems to challenge the united power of all the fleets in the world, and threatens to pour, as we are told, at least a thousand shot at once into any vessel that runs the gauntlet of its terrible batteries, is built on the idea that it never can be attacked by land. It is made against everything that swims, as if the land would take care of itself. This was an oversight, if, indeed, it was an oversight not to reckon on the possibility of 100,000 English and French soldiers being afloat in the Black Sea. How far the omission has been repaired during the last few weeks it is impossible to say, but such is the nature of the ground immediately above Sebastopol that it would be impossible, even with a very long notice, to raise works of defence upon it which would not be commanded from other ground near. It is possible the attack may degenerate into a blockade, and if we only persevere we must ultimately starve out the garrison of this
 1109 The Times Hansard "I must say that, in my opinion, there never has been a great State whose power of external aggression has been more over-rated than that of Russia. It has been said, that Russia is powerful in self-defence, and it is inferred from that that she is equally powerful in aggression. But, the very circumstance which makes her so powerful within, makes her also comparatively weak without."—[3  Hansard, 1110 The Times 1111 1112 Laughter 1113 1114 ''Much as I abhor war, much as I deprecate the evils of war, I confess I do not view a war with Russia with that apprehension with which some Gentlemen seem to regard it." [3  Hansard, 1115 A Laugh. 1116
 MR. ROEBUCK : I read from the Report which was written by the noble Lord the Member for Totness (Lord Seymour); I quoted from his Report.
 MR. ROEBUCK : Sir, I take shame to myself for once in my life. I have indulged in panegyric; but, like almost all other men who attempt a character to which they are not accustomed, I have failed in representing it, and have failed also most completely in making myself understood. Perhaps I may fail again in attempting to make an explanation, but, as I shall not attempt to eulogise, perhaps I may be successful. I did object to making the Duke of Newcastle a scapegoat. I gave that noble Duke credit for industry and good intentions, and I said that he had done his duty according to
 1184 1185
 MR. ROEBUCK : I am in the recollection of the House, and I distinctly assert that the hon. Gentleman said, that the warning which he had uttered when the Committee was appointed had prevented the mischief which would otherwise have arisen; and I consider that that statement displayed an extravagance of vanity on the part of that hon. Gentleman. Allow me, in making an end of what I have to say, to make an appeal to the House. I have acted in this matter as I thought it my duty to act. An inquiry had been instituted by this House into a matter which deeply affected the happiness and welfare of my countrymen. A Committee brought these matters to a conclusion. I came to this House to ask them if they coincided in that conclusion; and the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Wiltshire (Mr. Sidney Herbert) says most candidly that I did no more than my duty. I now appeal to the House, and ask them to watch over the great interests of England. I ask them to watch over the army of England. In doing so, I have done my duty; it is for
 1186
 MR. LOWE : What I stated was, that one of two things would happen—either that the inquiry would extend to questions of State policy, and would thus endanger our alliance with France; or, if it did not, then injustice would be done to individuals.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS : Sir, I feel somewhat embarrassed in rising to address the House immediately after the eloquent speech to which we have just listened, but, sharing as I have done in many of the operations, and some of the sufferings of our army in the Crimea, I feel bound to offer a few observations on this Motion. I entirely concur, Sir, with the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) in considering that the tone and manner of the noble Lord at the head of the Government have not been satisfactory or respectful to this House; but, nevertheless, that I regard as a very subordinate and secondary matter, in comparison with the policy of this country in regard to the great contest in which we are engaged. I must congratulate the noble Lord the Member for London (Lord John Russell) on the eulogium which has been pronounced on him by the hon. Gentleman who spoke last. Ever since the noble Lord returned from Vienna, to the surprise of the country, as the apostle of peace, of course he has been received with open arms by the hon. Member for Manchester and his Friends. The House, Sir, and the country are, in my opinion, greatly indebted to the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Roebuck) for his labours in presiding over the Committee, and for the just and impartial spirit by which he has been guided. The results of the inquiry I regard as being of the highest importance; but the hon. and learned Gentleman has, I think, made a mistake in supposing that those results are only available as affording materials for a denunciation so sweeping as that which he has embodied in his Resolution. Indeed, I should have perhaps had less difficulty in supporting the hon. and learned Gentleman, had he not, by the intensity of his feelings, been led into proposing so comprehensive and vehement a
 1117 1118 1119 1120 1121 beau ideal l.; l., 1122 l.; 1123 1124 1125 1126
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, in the course of this evening's debate so little has been urged in support of the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Roebuck), and such complete and convincing arguments have been adduced in opposition to that Motion, that much of what I might have addressed to the House in that sense has been anticipated, and is now unnecessary. I allude especially to the speeches of my noble Friend (Lord John Russell) and of my right hon. Friend the Member for South Wiltshire (Mr. S. Herbert), who, I think, have stated on incontrovertible grounds the reasons why the House should refuse its assent to the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman. I am, indeed, at a loss to understand the precise object of that Motion, or the precise issue raised upon which the House is now asked to pronounce its verdict. I should have supposed, from the terms of the Motion, that what the hon. and learned Gentleman wished was now to fix upon every individual Member of Lord Aberdeen's Government the responsibility of the errors which may have been committed in the conduct of the war, and that he wished to condemn every Member of that Government to perpetual exclusion from the service of the Crown, in consequence of their having, according to his view, betrayed the trust reposed in them, and failed to discharge their duties as Ministers. In his speech, however, the hon. and learned Member did not propose to the House this general and sweeping condemnation and exclusion from office, for he excepted from his Resolution those noble Lords and right hon. Gentlemen who have seceded from office, and who are not Members of the present Government. He wished apparently to fix upon my noble Friend at the head of the Government, and upon those of his colleagues who are now associated with him, and who were also Members of
 1154 1155 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the condition of our army before Sebastopol, and into the conduct of those departments of the Government whose duty it has been to minister to the wants of the army." 1156 1157 "My Lords, I considered it then my duty deliberately to consider, before I assumed the responsibility which I understood it to be the wish of Her Majesty I should discharge, in what position I should be with regard to Parliamentary support. … It is true, my Lords, that I could have filled several of the offices of the Government in a manner that would have commanded the approbation alike of my own supporters and of the majority of my political opponents."—[3  Hansard, "It is no secret that the moment the Administration of the noble Earl opposite was dissolved a cry was raised by a portion of the Press, exercising no insignificant influence over the public mind, that, whatever might be the future composition of the Ministry, one thing at least was clear—namely, that what was called a Derby Administration was out of the question, and that another thing was not less clear, that Viscount Palmerston was the man called upon by the voice of the country to take the management of affairs. My Lords, I speak not only of the language of the Press, but also of the language of Members of Parliament. … There was a universal impression in favour of the noble Viscount, who, somehow or other, appears to have enjoyed a peculiar exemption from the censure passed on the whole of his colleagues."—[3  Hansard, 1158 "One of the greatest defects that appears to have existed was a defect that arose in the office presided over by the noble Viscount himself—namely, in the organisation and embodiment of the militia. But, be that as it may, in the public mind the noble Viscount was excepted from the censure imposed on his colleagues in the Administration; and the hon. and learned Gentleman who brought forward the Motion by which the Government was overthrown, if I mistake not, declared his opinion that Viscount Palmerston was the only person who was fit to succeed to the Government of the country. But a higher authority still was one of the noble Viscount's colleagues, who considered the case of the late Government indefensible, and their conduct to be such as to compel him, prematurely, to secede from them. That noble Lord generously and disinterestedly sacrificed himself to a colleague, and declared that in his opinion the only person to conduct the military affairs of the country was his late colleague Viscount Palmerston. Now, I put it to your Lordships and the country whether, with that feeling prevailing in Parliament—with a general declaration in favour of a very distinguished Member of that House—a declaration made by a large portion of the Press, and by a considerable body of the Members of the House of Commons, and sustained by the high authority of the noble Lord the late President of the Council—I ask what prospect of immunity from attack, or what prospect of a sustained majority, a Government could expect which should be formed to the exclusion of that individual?"—[3  Hansard, 1159 1160 1161 1162
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, at this late hour, and after the minute and ample discussion which this Motion has undergone, I only feel it necessary to interpose for a very short time between the House and the division to which it is so manifestly anxious to proceed. But I must be allowed to say that I think this is one of the most extraordinary Motions that have ever been made within the walls of Parliament, whether we consider the time to which it relates or the manner in which persons are brought within the scope of its operation. Sir, I am far from wishing to disclaim my share in that responsibility which the hon. and learned Gentleman who has proposed and brought forward this Motion, and those who have taken part with him, desire to fix upon every Member of the Aberdeen Government for every act which that Government performed. I am ready to acknowledge that if any one Member of that Government were guilty of gross neglect of the duties of his office, this House is entitled to call the other Members of that Government to account for not having interposed by their advice, remonstrances, and objections to change that course and remedy those abuses which the House may be disposed to censure. But the manner in which, on the present occasion, the hon. and learned Gentleman wishes to fix that
 1165 1166 1167 1168 1169 1170 1171 laches 1172 1173 1174 1175
 COLONEL NORTH  put the question of which he had given notice—Whether those officers who wished to take advantage of the Queen's late warrant for the retirement of officers upon full pay, and obtaining a step in rank, would be permitted to retain the reward for distinguished service which Her Majesty had been graciously pleased to grant to them? In putting this question he begged to say that he did so merely for
 1206 s. l.
 COLONEL DUNNE  was surprised that
 1207
 COLONEL KNOX  thought it was hard that a man who had purchased a commission in the army should be obliged, when in ill health, on pain of losing his good service pension, to retain that commission, although, perhaps, he had a starving family at home; and asked whether that regula-
 1208
 MR. ELLICE  said, that this subject came before the Army Estimates Committee, and it then appeared that the money allotted to enable the officers to retire was limited in amount.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, it had been promised that there should be a clause fixing a time, after which no sewer would be allowed to discharge itself into the Thames; and he wished to know if such a clause
 1210
 MR. PERCY  said, that one of the principal arguments for giving a large salary to this officer was that he had great and onerous duties to perform, which would occupy so much of his time; and it was, therefore, clear that he could not do his duty in the House of Commons and at the Board at the same time.
 THE CHAIRMAN  read the following Resolution—
 1212 "That it is the opinion of this Committee that Her Majesty be authorised to guarantee the payment of the interest on the loan of 5,000,000  l.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : My hon. Friend the Member for Stoke (Mr. Ricardo) began his remarks by objecting to the Resolution before the Committee upon the ground that we were proposing a subsidy to Turkey. He quoted a return moved for by Mr. Hume, showing what was the amount of subsidies in the late war, including subsidies to Austria and Russia, and he argued from the amount of these subsidies (about 50,000,000  l., 1223 1224 l., l. l., 1225
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The hon. Baronet communicated with me previously as to the way in which the question should be put, and he asked if it was my intention to propose anything additional in Committee of Ways and Means. I stated that it would be necessary to propose some additional estimates for the army and navy, and that if those estimates were agreed to by the House it would then be my duty to show how the additional expenses were to be met. I am at a loss to know how, in giving that answer, I departed from my duty to this House. I believe that it is not the usual practice to give notice of submitting supplementary estimates. When submitted they speak for themselves, but of course sufficient time is given for their consideration before they are proposed to be voted in Committee of Supply. My hon. Friend further says that, before Her Majesty entered, into this Convention with the Governments of France and Turkey, the House ought to have been informed of the intention of the Government to propose such an arrangement, and the pleasure of the House ought to have been taken before the Convention was framed. In answer to that objection, I can only say that such is not the practice with respect to treaties between independent nations. It is the prerogative of the Crown to negotiate with foreign Powers, and to enter into Conventions with them in matters involving
 1226
 MR. GLADSTONE : Among the many excellent qualities of my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, which have made him deservedly esteemed by his friends and by this House, I confess that I cannot but admire the comfort and composure with which he discharges the difficult duties of his office. I confess that I do not think that any Gentleman who listened to my right hon. Friend could have derived from his speech—unless he had been otherwise informed—an impression that we have now before us for discussion and settlement one of the most serious and formidable questions which have ever been submitted to Parliament; because if there is a question connected with our finances that excites a deep and general feeling of suspicion, mistrust, alarm, and aversion, it is a proposal, at the commencement of a war, of the nature of that now before the Committee. We are not discussing, on this occasion, any question of pacific or martial policy. We do not come here as Members of a peace society, or of a war society, and I shall deal with the question before us precisely as if I believed that the difference between four ships and eight ships, or the difference between limitation and counterpoise, justified the effusion of all the blood and treasure which the war has cost, and is still likely to cost.
 1227 s. s. 1228 s. d. s. s. 1229 1230 bonâ fide, 1231 bonâ fide 1232 Moniteur 1233
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am desirous, before the Committee proceeds to a vote on the Resolution before it, to call attention to the position in which the country will be placed if this Resolution is not agreed to. A Convention has been entered into between Her Majesty, the Emperor of the French, and the Sultan, with respect to the contraction of this loan. In consequence of this engagement, the Emperor of the French and Her Majesty have each made recommendations to their respective legislative bodies, to carry into effect each part of the arrangement. The recommendations of the Emperor of the French preceded in point of time those of Her Majesty to her Parliament. The constitutional practice of this country has been to consider a treaty imperfect and not binding until the ratifications have been exchanged; and in obedience to this established practice, Her Majesty, after the treaty had been signed by the Secretary of State, did not lay it before Parliament until the ratifications had been exchanged at Constantinople. The Emperor of the French proceeded in a different manner. Shortly after the Convention had been signed, the Legislative Body of France being in session, the treaty was laid before them, accompanied with the report of the Council of State. It was taken into consideration by them, and a Commission of the Legislative Body
 1257 1258 l l l l 1259 l l 1260
 MR. WHITE SIDE  said, he was desired by his hon. Friend (Mr. Spooner) to state that he had never absolutely refused an inquiry, although he had refused the inquiry tendered by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, he regarded the Motion as one of a very objectionable description, and hoped it would not be pressed. He objected to the exclusion from this House of Gentlemen who, when appealed to, were capable of throwing great light upon questions which came before Parliament.
 MR. LAYARD : Sir, it may be in the recollection of the House that on Tuesday I asked a question of the noble Lord as to the Danubian Principalities of Moldavia and Wallachia, and that, if I could not then obtain a reply, I would repeat it. The noble Lord said, the Four Points having been considered as a whole, the rejection of any one point involved the rejection of the whole four, and therefore, the third point having been rejected, the Government considered themselves free as to the others; but that in any future negotiations the principle of these points would still form the basis of arrangement. I wish to ask whether by "principle" the noble Lord means the principle laid down in the memorandum of the 28th of December, namely, as regards the first point, that the sole guarantee as to the Principalities should be converted into a quintuple guarantee, and that any future arrangement for the government of the Principalities should be by a combined arrangement between the Powers which are parties to the treaty. It having been reported to me that there is at this moment a commission sitting at Vienna to arrange a
 1203
 MR. LAYARD  asked, whether the noble Lord would have any objection to lay a copy of the protest made by the Gentlemen from the Principalities on the table of the House?
 MR. DISRAELI  repeated the question put by him on a previous evening, as to whether the noble Lord at the head of the Government would have any objection to lay upon the table of the house a copy of the instructions given to Lord John Russell as the Plenipotentiary of this country at the recent Congress at Vienna?
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that it was somewhat irregular to ask what was his object in the course he had taken, and he must decline giving the noble Lord any reason for making the inquiry. He wished, however, to state that the noble Lord himself I had moved for copies of the instructions given in the cases of Mr. Ouseley and of Lord Ashburton, and he (Mr. Disraeli) had, therefore, only followed a great precedent in the course which he had taken.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I remember a little time ago, when the Sardinian loan was proposed, I stated my opinion that it was expedient that the attention of the House of Commons should be called to the first step in advancing to foreign Powers sums of money, either by way of loan or subsidy. I am not prepared to say that it would have been politic on that occasion to oppose the measure which Ministers brought forward, because peculiar circumstances recommended it to the consideration of the House, and it was as little objectionable in its nature as a transaction of this kind can be. But, as the first step in making advances to foreign Powers, I thought the proposal deserved graver and greater consideration than it received. We have before us now a much larger proposition, in form very different, and accompanied with circumstances which should make the House pause before it agrees to the Resolution which is in the hands of the Chairman. The noble Lord, in his second speech, in answer to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University (Mr. Gladstone), has dealt very much upon this point, that this is not a subsidy but a  bonâ fide 1239 "When he was required to state the amount of the Greek revenue, he begged to say, that when the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whoever he might be, was called upon to anticipate the amount of revenue of this country even for one year only, he always expressed, with some degree of hesitation and doubt, his anticipations of the next year's income; and to call, therefore, upon him to act the part of the Chancellor of the Exchequer for Greece, and to anticipate what would be the revenue of that country, not for the next year only, but for the next six years, was to require him to undertake a task somewhat difficult, and one which, with all deference, he must decline, seeing that the ablest financiers could not perform it in the best regulated States. His firm conviction, however, was, that the revenue of Greece, under a stable Government, would be amply sufficient to meet the demands upon it, and, he believed, that the whole of the loan would not ultimately be required to be raised." [3  Hansard, 1240 l s. d. l l 1241 l 1242 1243
 MR. DISRAELI : Then I think the noble Lord has entered into an arrangement infinitely more to be deprecated. What will happen, if we are not only to supply the funds but also to distribute and
 1244 bonâ fide l l 1245 l 1246
 MR. CARDWELL : The Committee must have listened, I think, with surprise, to the observations which have just fallen from my hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth. We are about to consider the first of a series of measures in a course of downward precedents. The hon. Gentleman has an idea that those who support peace at any price will be found in the same lobby with those who support the proposition of my hon. Friend the Member for Stoke, and that seems to be a sufficient argument with him in favour of the present financial proposal, which he thinks ought to be left entirely in the hands of the Executive. In such matters as these we are in the hands of the Executive, and an inconvenience arises in this debate in consequence of our being so; because they have the prerogative of causing conventions to be entered into in the first instance; and that which is our duty as the representatives of the people, from which we cannot relieve ourselves, the responsibility of which we have to bear, and the duty of which we must discharge, does not arise, until already a step has been taken by the Crown which we are most reluctant, if possible to avoid it, to frustrate. But are we amenable in general to the charge of endeavouring to frustrate the intentions of the Executive? Has not Parliament sanctioned, up to this time, an expenditure of 90,000,000 l 1254 l 1255 l l l 1256
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that as he understood his hon. Friend did not mean to proceed with the proposed inquiry until the next Session, he should not deem it necessary to trespass at any length on the time of the House upon that occasion. On the 21st of May he had offered his hon. Friend a Committee which could fully inquire into all the disputed facts of the case. But his hon. Friend had refused to accept that offer, and if he had not refused it, there could be no doubt but the matter would before the present time have been completely settled. The Commissioners, the secretaries, and the printers were in London, in expectation that the hon. Gentleman would move for a Committee; but he would not do so.
 MR. H. BARING  said, as he thought the feeling of the House was against the clause, he would withdraw it.
 MR. H. BARING  proposed the following clause—
 "No person appointed by virtue of this Act to the Office of Chairman of the Metropolitan Board of Works shall, during the continuance of such appointment, be capable of being elected or sitting as a Member of the House of Commons."
 MR. WILSON  having moved that the House at its rising do adjourn till Monday next,
 M R. J. L. RICARDO : The question of the hon. Baronet was as to when you intended to go into Committee of Ways and Means.
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  said, that if he could reconcile it with his duty as a Member of Parliament, whose special function it was to watch over the Government and to see that no unnecessary burdens were imposed upon the people, to vote for the Resolution proposed by the noble Lord, there were many considerations which would induce him to do so. When, however, he recollected that we were by this loan re-entering upon the whole system of subsidies, the effect of which still pressed so heavily upon the nation, he felt himself bound to consider carefully the course which he should adopt. He found, from a Return obtained by the late Mr. Hume, that the amount of subsidies granted during the last war, in the twenty years up to 1816, amounted to no less a sum than 58,000,000  l., l. l. 1218 l., l. l. l., 1219 1220 "As the hon. Member had mentioned the term 'guarantee,' in order to prevent any misconstruction, he (Lord Palmerston) would observe that the guarantee contained in the treaty would not involve England in the liability of paying one single shilling of the loan, as it was distinctly arranged that the whole revenue of Greece should, in the first instance, be applied to the payment of the interest and the debt by instalments, so that England could not be called upon unless on the failure of that revenue."—[3  Hansard, l.; l.; l.; l.; l., l. l. 1221 1222 l.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he did not see why a Member of Parliament should be excluded if elected; but at the same time he thought that such an officer would be very fortunate if he had not a seat in the House, for he would have quite enough to do to manage the forty-five gentlemen whom he presided over, without being subject to be questioned by 600 Members in that House.
 MR. NAPIER  understood that the Government were willing to assent to inquiry, but differed upon the terms. When it came to a matter of terms, there must be some reason for their departure from the arrangement formerly made, and he would like to know what that reason was?
 MR. COBDEN : It is not my intention to enlarge upon the financial question which has been so ably dealt with by the hon. Gentlemen who have preceded me, but I must take the opportunity to make one or two remarks upon the illustration afforded by the proposition of the Government of the tendency to interfere in the internal affairs of Turkey, which I have from the first foreseen would be a consequence of this war. It is not the war with Russia which has brought Turkey to such a state that she requires a loan. I have not seen that she has made any such vast and costly efforts for the defence of her territory as to involve a great State in financial ruin, and less than twelve months ago the noble Lord at the head of the Government repeated his assertion that Turkey had made more progress in internal improvements, both economical and commercial, and in religions liberty, during the last twenty years, than any other nation in Europe. But now what does the noble Lord tell us? He says, we must guarantee a loan of 5,000,000 l
 MR. COBDEN : The noble Lord now says the Turkish army; but I turned round to an hon. Gentleman near me and repeated the words the noble Lord used, in order to be sure that I had heard them correctly, and they referred in the first place to the Turkish Empire, and in the next place to the Turkish army. The noble Lord, at any rate, talked of the advance of this money being a matter of life and death to Turkey. In this matter, as in everything else, I believe the Government—especially the noble Lord—have either been grossly ignorant of what we were going to do from day to day, or else have not dealt frankly with the House, and given us the full benefit of their own knowledge; because if what the noble Lord said twelve months ago were true, Turkey cannot by this time have brought herself to the forlorn and humiliating position in which the noble Lord now says she is placed. But what are we to think of the policy of the Government, in continuing this war for the preservation of Turkey, if it has in one short twelve months brought her to that position? I will not enter into a discussion as to the war itself, for that subject is to be brought forward again, but this much I may say—it is known to us all that the war has within the last two months, since the Vienna Conferences, been renewed at the instance of our own Government. After the revelations of  The Times 1251 1252 l 1253
 MR. SPOONER  said, he would not accept it.
 MR. SPOONER  rose to move as an Amendment—
 "That a Select Committee to inquire into the circumstances under which, in the Evidence taken before the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the Management and Government of the College of Maynooth, and reported to Parliament, titles prohibited by law were allowed to be ascribed to Roman Catholic Bishops; and also why, and under what circumstances, some of the witnesses were permitted to make alterations in the evidence which they had given before the Commissioners; and also to inquire into the facts and circumstances connected with the alleged communication to Dr. Cullen of a portion of the evidence, and the use which he made of the information so received, and as to the person by whom the evidence was so furnished, and as to the delay which took place in laying the Report of the Commissioners before the Houses of Parliament." 1271 1272
 MR. LAING  felt very strongly that they ought not to sanction any measure of this description, involving, as it did, a fresh liability, until they had had some opportunity of discussing the principles, the policy, and the objects of the war; and until a clear understanding was come to respecting the objects for which the money was wanted. Since the debate raised by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli), which had taken place not only in ignorance but under a complete misapprehension of the facts of the case, the correspondence relating to the Conferences at Vienna had been laid upon the table, and the House found themselves in the position of having broken off the negotiations contrary to the expressed opinions of the whole of the eminent statesmen who represented the four allied Powers. He would, however,
 1248 l l 1249 laches
 MR. WALPOLE : I had hoped, Sir, that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer was about to accede to the very reasonable proposition of my right hon. Friend (Mr. Disraeli), not to force this Resolution upon the House without further consideration. There are many reasons which I might advance why it would be advisable that the
Government should adopt that course. One reason is that, in the first place, the arguments which have been advanced against this Resolution are not only unanswered, but, because they are so, I believe they are unanswerable; and, in the second place, there is this singularity, that, with the exception of the noble Lord at the head of the Government and the Chancellor of the Exchequer, not a single gentleman has offered one single argument in support of the Resolution; for although the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Wilkinson) has announced his intention of supporting the Government, he, at the same time, has advanced the strongest possible argument against the Resolution. But, Sir, if I was disappointed that the Chancellor of the Exchequer did not accede to that proposal, I was still more surprised at the language which he used, and which was totally at variance with the more constitutional language of the noble Viscount the First Lord of the Treasury. The right
 1261 1262
 MR. WALPOLE : What I said was, "Will the noble Lord reconsider the Resolution, and alter his plan entirely?"
 MR. MONSELL  said, that considerable improvements had been made within the last month. The Government had received no official report respecting the failure of the rifles manufactured at Enfield, and used in the Crimea, to which the hon. Gentleman referred.
 MR. WILKINSON  said, that he thought that the best mode of guaranteeing the loan would have been a separate, and not a joint guarantee; but the question appeared to have resolved itself very much into a peace and war debate, and he had no doubt that every one of the peace-at-any-price party, as well as those who approved of the Austrian proposition, would be found in the lobby in opposition to the present Resolution. The object in view was to provide the best means of prosecuting the war, and whether those means were to be provided in the shape of men or money was a question for the Executive to determine. Looking at the question in a constitutional light, he could not take upon himself the responsibility of refusing the Government his support on the present occasion.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  thought a great many points would arise in the House respecting this Board which would require explanation, and who was so fit to give that explanation as the chairman of that Board? This was not a Government appointment, and he could not conceive the existence of any ground for excluding the
 1211
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that the proposition of the hon. Member for Marlborough (Mr. Baring) amounted to this—here was an officer appointed to an important duty with a large salary, and the House of Commons was to step in and say to the constituencies, "You shall not choose any Member of this House, and if you elect any other person he shall not be allowed to sit in this House." They might as well say that the Lord Mayor of London should not have a seat in the House of Commons because he was paid a large sum of money and had onerous duties to perform. He thought it most unfair to make such an exception as that proposed.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  would answer the question of the hon. Baronet first. The Metropolitan Board of Works had the power of levying rates, which were to be general; but in the case of sewerage, the rates were to be levied on the districts over which the drainage extended. As to compensation, what he understood was this, that there should be an appeal, and the noble Lord the Member for Totness (Lord Seymour) suggested that the appeal should be to the Metropolitan Board of Works, and that any party might go before them and have his case heard. That had been provided for in the clause. What he had objected to was any reference being made to the Treasury, and, therefore, it was left, first, for the district Board to determine, and the party might state his case again to the Metropolitan Board of Works. As to the question of the noble Lord (Lord Seymour) he would say that he had fixed a time after which no drainage water could go into the Thames, the time being five years from next December. It was impossible to carry out the great works contemplated in a shorter period.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he was glad to find that the question had not yet seen decided by the Government. He agreed with the hon. Gentleman, that there was something to be said on both sides; but in the present instance the difficulty lay on the side of the Government. The hon. Gentleman said that the objection was lest young and distinguished officers should be induced to apply for leave to retire on full pay. But the hon. Gentleman must know that it was not a matter of course, but, on the contrary, a great favour to be allowed to retire on full pay. None but distinguished officers should be allowed to retire. Was the hon. Gentleman afraid lest the weakness of the Government should induce them to yield to the claims of others? He presumed to think that the hon. Gentleman had not stated all the reasons for leaving his matter still unsettled, and he hoped he would the next time be prepared with a more satisfactory answer.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  observed that the question under discussion was whether the officers who had received the distinguished service pension should be deprived of it.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he was not surprised at the kind of negative reception which the proposition of the Government had met with; yet he should be sorry if the House were to throw any decided obstacle in the way of affording assistance to Turkey in some mode or other. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) seemed to think it would be better to make this advance to Turkey without retaining any control in our own hands. He entirely differed from the right hon. Gentleman in that respect. He should never consent to give this money into the hands of such a Government as they knew that of Turkey to be without retaining in our own hands an efficient control over the expenditure. But what he complained of was, and what the House had a right to complain of was, that they were called on to vote the large sum of 5,000,000 l l 1247
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  readily acknowledged the right of the hon. and gallant officer to expect as definite an answer as he could give to his question. It was simply whether an officer who had received a reward for distinguished services, out of a grant made by Parliament should continue to receive it upon availing himself of the new regulations and retiring upon full pay; and he regretted that he experienced so much difficulty in satisfying the object the hon. and gallant Gentleman had in view. Much might undoubtedly be said on both sides, and it was not quite so clear a question as the hon. and gallant Gentleman who spoke last supposed. For instance, it was not desirable that the advantages of the full-pay list should be multiplied to such an extent as to bring forward a number of applications from comparatively young officers with which it would be difficult for the War Office to deal. Every officer who retired upon the full-pay list received a step of rank in addition to the full pay of the rank from which he retired; and if, in addition, he were to receive a reward for distinguished service, he feared that claims would be sent in by officers who had received that reward, to retire upon full pay, at a time of life when it would be most undesirable that they should be placed on the retired list. He also thought the rewards should be given in such a manner that they should fall in as soon as possible. At the same time he fully admitted that an officer, who had fairly earned a reward for distinguished service, should be allowed to keep that reward as long as he lived. The question, however, had not yet been decided by the War Office, and he would take care that attention should be immediately given to it, and that a decision should be arrived at as early as circumstances would admit of.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Government were not opposed to all inquiry. The Secretary for Ireland had acceded to inquiry in the terms of an Amendment which he had placed upon the paper, but the hon. Member having made his Motion on going into Committee of Supply the forms of the House did not allow of the Government moving the Amendment of which notice had been given. He understood the hon. Member to say he should renew his Motion next Session, and it seemed to him very objectionable to appoint a Committee now without intending to prosecute the inquiry until next Session.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that he agreed in the principle of the Bill, but he doubted whether thirty six different Boards, consisting of 100 or 150 members each, would be the best kind of machinery for working it. He thought it would be found that the owners of property were not sufficiently represented. If the principle of local management was good for the metropolis, it was good for the towns also, and he would contend for its application to them next Session. He thought that whilst the Metropolitan Board possessed such extensive powers of taxation, to give them the power of exempting certain districts of the metropolis from taxation was a dangerous principle. The right hon. Gentleman did, in the case of the Metropolitan Board, limit it to drainage, but he could not find that he had carried out the same principle as to the district Boards. There was another point. The right hon. Gentleman had admitted the principle of compensation, and in Committee it was admitted that there should be an appeal; but he now found that the Metropolitan Board, to whom the appeal lay, had the power to refuse compensation altogether. That was not properly an appeal, for the Bill enacted in another clause that there should be some compensation. He thought it proper that the right hon. Gentleman should be prewarned, that he might take steps to insert some words that would carry the intention of having a proper appeal into effect. He trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would take care that district Boards should not have the power of arbitrarily taxing property; and also that the 600 people who would be employed, might have a fair chance of getting the compensation which was intended by one clause, but which by another clause the Metropolitan Board would have the power of refusing.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to know on what ground the Government could at present refuse an inquiry, after they had on two former occasions acknowledged the propriety of granting it?
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, that the motives and conduct of those who had endeavoured to introduce Amendments into the Bill had been much misconstrued, and he wished to say a few words on the subject. It had been represented that they were opposed to the principle of local self-
 1209
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he should support the clause, being of opinion that there would be great evil in such an officer being appointed on Committees of the House for instance, or being detained in the House late at night. It was said that he could be removed at once if any evil arose; but his removal could only be effected by the votes of two-thirds of those whom he sat with, and was not likely to take place.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the Convention upon which the Resolution is founded was entered into by the two allied Governments with Turkey, in accordance with, and in fulfilment of those common views which have actuated those Governments and the people of the two countries in regard to the war in which we are now engaged. That war was undertaken for the defence, present and future, of Turkey. It has been the opinion of all those who have concurred in the justice and policy of the war that it ought to be prosecuted with all the vigour and energy which the resources of the several parties engaged admit the employment of. No doubt great efforts have been made, and will continue to be made, by the Governments of England and France for that purpose; large armies have been sent out, great fleets have been fitted out and stationed in the two seas—the Black Sea and the Baltic; but it is evident that the exertions of England and France cannot be attended with the results which we are entitled to aim at, and which are essential for the accomplishment of the objects for which the war is undertaken, unless the efforts of these two countries, which are comparatively distant, can be efficiently seconded by the exertions of the country itself which is most nearly, and deeply interested in the conflict. Everybody is aware of what I may call the noble struggle which Turkey has made in this war—of the great and successful efforts which her army made during the greater part of a twelvemonth in defending the northern frontier of her territories. The success of those efforts and the magnitude of them exceeded, I believe, the expectation of almost all those persons who had turned their attention to the resources and prospects of that empire. There were few who believed that there was in the Turkish nation that enthusias-
 1213 l. l. l., l. l. 1214 l., 1215 1216 l. 1217
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, it was very hard when he was disposed to be courteous, that the right hon. Gentleman should be so very ungracious. What he was going to state was this, that if it was the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman, or of the House, that it would be a completion of the case if the Government laid before the House that part of their instructions which related to the specific points which had come under discussion, he would have no objection to give such extracts from the instructions as would complete that part of the case. He decidedly objected to giving the whole of the instructions for the reasons which he had stated, namely, that they treated of matters connected with the relations of the powers of Europe with each other and with this country, and that it would not be for the good of the public service to produce them. Subject to this limitation, he was perfectly ready to give extracts of the instructions, and he believed that when those extracts were in the hands of hon. Members they would be perfectly satisfied with that portion of them.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that as a general rule, instructions of this sort were not laid before Parliament, and for reasons the force of which the House would at once acknowledge. The reasons were that these instructions necessarily entered into discussion upon all matters connected with the mission, involving opinions upon the relations of the different Powers to each other and to this country, and providing for contingencies and cases which might or might not arise; and it would be exceedingly injurious to the public service that such opinions should be made public. But he conceived the object of the right hon. Gentleman in moving for copies of these instructions was to as-
 1205
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he would communicate with his noble Friend the Secretary for Foreign Affairs on the subject.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : With regard to the first question of the hon. Gentleman, I certainly consider that it is rather difficult to Her Majesty's Government, and somewhat inconvenient to be asked, to state what are the precise conditions they may think it right to demand, or require or insist upon, in future negotiations. The hon. Gentleman must see the inconvenience of such questions, bearing as they do on matters of considerable importance. What I meant, on a former occasion, to state was this—that the details of the arrangement with regard to the first and second points were settled provisionally, on condition that the whole treaty of peace should be satisfactorily arranged. That not having been the case Her Majesty's Government—and the Austrian Government were quite aware of the circumstance—held themselves free to re-discuss any matter which had been provisionally agreed to in regard to the Principalities. But what I consider to be the fundamental principle of the first point is that Russia should no longer exercise that exclusive protection over the Principalities which hitherto by treaties she has expressly enjoyed. What may be substituted for that must be matter of arrangement when the time comes for considering it. With regard to the Commission reported to be sitting at Vienna, I beg to inform the hon. Gentleman that there is no such Commission sitting at Vienna, engaged in planning a system of Government for the Principalities. There is a Commission, but one of a very different kind—namely, a Commission consisting of English, Austrian, Turkish, and French members, who are empowered to receive representations from the inhabitants of the Principalities as to any complaints which they
 1204
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, it was true the hon. Member for Warwickshire had spoken to him on the subject, and that he had been induced to think that he could support the Motion which the hon. Member meant to propose. But on further consideration he had altered his opinion, and wrote a note within half an hour after to the hon. Member, telling him that he could not consent to the Motion. His hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland was still ready to abide by the proposal which he had made.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The right hon. Gentleman is a statesman who views things on a large scale; and I am sure that no man in this House has the honour of the country and the great interest now concerned more truly at heart than he has. Now, he asks the Government to reconsider this arrangement. Will he a little reconsider his own proposition? And do not let him taunt me by saying that I am asking him to suggest the course which the Government is to pursue; but will he just follow out in his own mind the steps which must be taken if we are to act upon his recommendation to revise our proposals? Why, here is a treaty signed and also ratified between France, Turkey, and England. The ratifications were exchanged at Constantinople. Now, we cannot alter this arrangement without having a new treaty; and how does the right hon. Gentleman think this new treaty is to be worked out, and how long would it take? There must be a renewed negotiation with France, and would the Government of that country agree to such a change? I will not undertake to say that it would. The Government of France might have great objections to assenting to what (I was going to say) the right hon. Gentleman wishes; but, upon my word, so many different opinions have been stated in the course of this debate that I am at loss to know which of the conflicting views is the one entertained by the right hon. Member. I will assume, however, that he would be satisfied if the guarantee were separate instead of joint; for that, as I understand him, is the point on which his opposition rests. [Mr. WALPOLE made a remark.] Does the right hon. Gentleman prefer that the money should be given  en bloc, 1267 1268
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : They are not to be receivers general of the revenue; they are to see to the appropriation of the loan.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the tendency of the concluding and impassioned part of the oration of the right hon. Gentleman was to represent that the Chancellor of the Exchequer intimated that the Crown has some power independent of this House to contract engagements which the House is bound to ratify. My right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer made no such representation. He stated, in answer to a complaint that the House had not been consulted beforehand by the Crown as to the engagements into which the Crown was entering, that according to precedent and the principles of the Constitution, the Crown should judge of the engagements into which it might think fit to enter; that if those engagements required—as all engagements connected with money must do—the sanction of this House, such engagements should distinctly and specifically be made contingent upon the approval of the House; but that it is not for the Crown to come down and ask the opinion of the House as to the engagements into which it shall enter by negotiation with any foreign Power. Such engagements are to be determined upon by the responsible advisers of the Crown, and in the present instance I think Her Majesty's Government have acted entirely in accordance with the precedents that have been adopted in every similar case, and perfectly in accordance with the principles of the constitution. Let the Committee for a moment go into the real foundation of this Convention. Does anybody, really doubt that the Turkish Government is in absolute want of pecuniary resources to enable it to carry on the war? Does any man who thinks the war ought to be carried on with vigour doubt that it would be a great misfortune and a great impediment to its success, if Turkey were from want of means reduced to a state of in-
 1234 1235 l. l., l. bonâ fide 1236 1237 l. 1238
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The right hon. Gentleman appears very much to have misunderstood the argument of my right hon. Friend. He by no means meant to say that it was the duty of those who sit opposite, or of any persons in this House, not being the responsible advisers of the Crown, to propose measures for the Executive Government. The argument of my right hon. Friend was this. He explained to the House the financial position in which the Government stands. He first of all argued that pecuniary assistance was essentially requisite for the military service of Turkey—and here I may be allowed to say, with reference to what has fallen from other Gentlemen in this debate, that it is no reflection upon Turkey to assert that, engaged in a great war requiring most extraordinary exertions of a military kind, her ordinary revenues are insufficient to meet that emergency. I have been taunt-
 1263 1264 1265 1266
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I said, to prevent the Turkish army from falling to pieces.
 COLONEL LINDSAY  asked the Under Secretary for War, whether it was the intention of the Government to extend to the mother or sister of an officer who died from illness, contracted in the field, the same allowance as was proposed to be given, under special circumstances, to the mother or sister of an officer who had been killed in action?
 COLONEL LINDSAY : That is, if he dies from fatigue. Does the rule also apply to officers who may die from cholera, or other disease?
 MR. FITZROY   brought up "That it is the opinion of this Committee, that Her Majesty be authorised to guarantee the payment of the interest on the loan of five millions sterling, to be contracted for by His Imperial Majesty the Sultan, in pursuance of the Convention signed at London on the 27th day of June, 1855, between Her Majesty, His Majesty the Emperor of the French, and His Imperial Majesty the Sultan, and that provision be made out of the Consolidated Fund of the United Kingdom, or the growing produce thereof, for the issue of such sums of money from time to time, as may be required to pay any interest which may at any time be required to fulfil the guarantee of Her Majesty in respect of such interest, conformably to the tenor of Her Majesty's engagement as specified in the said Convention, together with the attending charges of management thereon."
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, the hon. Gentleman has just been pleased to say that, in his judgment, my conduct, in respect to the Turkish loan, has been unwise, unjust, unstatesmanlike, unpatriotic,
 1302 1303 1304 1305 1306 l. 1307 1308 1309 Dii Minores
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he had to call attention to a promise made by the Government and broken, and to a Vote of money taken under what he might call false pretences. On the 2nd of March, 1854, when the Ordnance Survey for Scotland came before the House, the hon. Gentleman the Member for Dovor (Mr. Rich) asked the then Chancellor of the Exchequer (Mr. Gladstone) upon what scale the Ordnance Survey for Scotland was to be made, and who was to pay for it? The right hon. Gentleman said that a scale of one inch to the mile would be sufficient for all national purposes, and that anything beyond that would not answer any national purpose; and that a twenty-five-inch scale to the mile had been proposed, which would be a great advantage to the landed proprietors of Scotland, but it would cost millions before it was completed; the House was, therefore, promised that the matter should not be decided upon by the Treasury, but that the House should have an opportunity of deciding upon the question; that experiments would be made of the twenty-five-inch scale in certain districts, and that the landowners should contribute to the cost
 1317 "If the survey is conducted in the main according to one general plan, the financial result is the same whether each district pays separately for its own map or the whole country pays the entire expense in its corporate capacity." "Lord Tweeddale says he cannot conceive a greater convenience than for owners of fixed pro-
 1318
 MR. ELLICE  said, the question at issue was between the noble Lord at the head of the Government and the House. His noble Friend had declared that the money voted should not be applied to the twenty-five-inch scale, but to the one-inch scale, until the House had had an opportunity of deciding for itself; but the agent of the Treasury had entirely subverted that assurance of his noble Friend. The simplest method of settling the matter was this: He (Mr. Ellice) would recommend a suspension of all operations for the present—the sappers engaged in the survey could find ample employment elsewhere—and a reference of the matter to a Committee of the House, who should examine not only great landed proprietors who had sent in representations in favour of the larger scale, but scientific men and the independent Members of this House who represented the interests of the tax-payers. Let his noble Friend take that course, and he had no doubt that with a settlement so arrived at the House would be perfectly content.
 MR. ELLICE : Why, it is given in the Treasury papers.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, the Government under which he held office decided in favour of a six-inch scale, but subsequently a scale of twenty-five inches and an absurd fraction was proposed. He, however, had found that the six-inch scale was amply sufficient in Ireland, and could not see what advantage there could be in a twenty-five-inch scale, except, perhaps, in towns, He thought the Government ought not to sanction a survey upon so large a scale, which must be very expensive, and could not be useful.
 MR. WILLIAMS  thought the country was indebted to the noble Lord who had exposed this most gross and monstrous job, intended exclusively for the benefit of the Scotch landlords. It was monstrous or the Scotch landlords to ask the House to consent to a twenty-five-inch scale entirely for their benefit, at an enormous expense, to be borne by the people of this country. The noble Lord (Lord Elcho) said that engineers were in favour of the twenty-five-inch scale; and there was no doubt of that, for it would give them employment till the day of judgment.
 LORD ELCHO  said, his first connection with the subject arose from being Chairman of a Committee to consider the question of the Scotch survey, which reported in favour of a one-inch scale. A Treasury Minute was issued somewhat in accordance with that Report. The people of Scotland, however, appeared not to be satisfied with that decision, and many petitions were presented praying for a six-inch scale. When Lord Aberdeen's Government came into office the Treasury had to consider the course it should pursue, and it appeared to them that the six-inch scale would not be worth the money it would cost, but that they ought to endeavour to find a scale large enough to be useful. With that view circulars were sent to the landowners, engineers, men of science, and practical men, whose replies were, he believed, thirty-two in favour of a six-inch scale, and upwards of ninety in favour of a large scale from twenty to twenty-four inches. Subsequently it was suggested that, as the tendencies of the age were towards decimals, it would be better to adopt a plan which at any future
 1324
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  explained. His hon. Friend seemed to think that he had had the presumption to express censure on the Members of the House; but if anybody had thought it worth while to report fully what he had said, it would be found that he had expressed no such opinion. He only said that the House had been taken by surprise by what had taken place on Friday night, but he had imputed factious conduct to nobody.
 MR. STUART WORTLEY : I rise, Sir, because I am anxious to express my regret that the House should have been surprised into a division upon Friday night, which I believe affords but a very imperfect indication of the feeling of this House or of the country. I attended the House that evening, and I remained in it till considerably past eight o'clock. When I left, I certainly understood from various quarters that it was not intended to carry the discussion on the question beyond a conversation, and that no division was to be taken upon it. I am bound to add that, within a few minutes after that, the hon. Member for Stoke (Mr. Ricardo) stated that it was his intention to divide; but I may appeal with confidence to those who attended that day whether it was expected that a division would take place? My conviction is that, if the House had been full at the time of the division, the majority would have been much larger in proportion in favour of the Resolution. I will not contend that the House has not the right to question any convention of this nature, because, though it is the prerogative of the Crown to conduct these negotiations and to make treaties, yet it is the privilege of the Commons of England to comment upon them, and to withhold the required supplies if they think fit to do so. I admit that there is upon the face of this Conven-
 1284
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : My authority is my general recollection of the communications which had at that time passed between the Government of Austria and that of Her Majesty. It was not a request immediately by the Government of this country, asking Austria to cross the Pruth, but a series of communications with regard to the operations which Austria was ready to undertake, in causing the evacuation of the Principalities by Russia. There was subsequently a communication to the effect that the Austrian army being in the Principalities, in case the armies of the allies should enter the Principalities for the purpose of crossing the Pruth, the Austrian army would remain in the Principalities, and allow the passage of the allied armies through their posts for the purpose of crossing the Pruth. What I stated was only from my general recollection, but the whole of the correspondence produced in my mind an impression that they were not prepared to cross the Pruth.
 MR. LAYARD  trusted that, as he was one of those Members who were not aware the other evening that a division of such importance was about to take place, he should now be allowed to say a few words. He hoped that the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Oxford University, would forgive him for expressing his conviction that the course he had taken on this subject was alike unwise, unstatesmanlike, and unpatriotic. Let the House look to the facts. That section of the Cabinet of which the right hon. Gentleman was a most distinguished ornament was perhaps mainly the cause of the present war, owing to the vacillating policy it had pursued. That Cabinet launched this country into the enterprise in which it was still engaged, the despatch which ordered our troops to the Crimea having been signed by the Duke of Newcastle; and now, when he stood in great straits, the right hon. Gentleman and his friends were the first to turn round and, embarrass the Government. The right hon. Gentleman could not have adopted a more effective mode of furthering the designs of our enemy than he had done.
 1298 1299 "The war, no doubt, has stimulated the trade of this place; the necessities of our army and the closing of the Danube and Odessa have created a great demand for grain here; this will cease to a certain extent, when the extraordinary causes which have produced it shall be terminated by peace. But my belief and hope is, that the trade created and fostered by the war will not cease with the war; the people of the interior have learnt to send their produce hither for sale, and have gained so largely that they have been tempted to extend tillage to the utmost in their power. The forests behind us are being cleared, and, as men are scarce, the women are used to cultivate the land. This immense increase of production must come hither for sale, as the interior has no consumption for it. I have been quite surprised to learn the riches of some of the landed proprietors in Asia Minor—one Bey offered to give in one sale 30,000 l. 1300 "Asia Minor is fulfilling your predictions. It has become one of the chief producers of supplies to the allied armies, especially Samsoun. Our harbour is crowded with shipping loading animals and grain. The quantity of bullocks in this country is extraordinary. We have delivered as many as a thousand a week to the Commissariat, and might give many more if required; but we suffer rather from too many beasts than too few. Steamers are constantly coming in—French, English, and Turkish, for supplies  * * * * * * * * l. 1301 A laugh.
 MR. DISRAELI : The noble Lord will excuse my having made an inquiry of him on a subject of such great importance; I could not know that the noble Lord spoke merely from memory, but, as the subject is one of such very great importance, I may he permitted to inquire of the noble Lord the First Minister, if he will state whether it is in his memory, under the circumstances to which I have referred, that Austria refused to cross the Pruth, and that one of the reasons for the expedition to the Crimea was that refusal on the part of the Austrian Government.
 MR. DISRAELI : Seeing the noble Lord the Member for the City of London in his place, I will take this opportunity of
 1282
 MR. CAYLEY  said, that an hon. Member had said that no independent Member had supported the proposal of the Government. He had only to remind the hon. Member that it was not usual for independent Members to get up and support proposals for taxation. After listening to the objections to loans, to subsidies, to guarantees—to the objections of the party for peace at any price, and to that of the party for peace at half-price, he saw the difficulties of the question, and felt inclined to wash his hands of the matter altogether. Considering all circumstances, he thought the Vote was a most perilous one, and that although there might be objections to the financial plan it did not appear to him that those objections at all counterbalanced the dangers and difficulties they encountered in opposing the proposition. In his opinion it was not desirable at present to have a change of Government, and though he agreed with the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster that the conduct of the present Government was not quite satisfactory, yet considering the period of the Session, the state of our alliance with France, and the condition of affairs in the East, he thought it would be a most perilous thing to reject the Resolution of the Government, and for the whole loan itself he would not have incurred the responsibility of opposing it. One form of Government had already received a severe shock in the opinion of foreign countries, and he did not think it would be at all wise to change the Administration just at the moment when they might be expected to apply most effectively the plans and arrangements they had made. They would be judged by their works when the House met after the recess, and he could tell the noble Lord that he (Mr. Cayley) would be one of the most severe judges on his proceedings if the war were not carried on with the vigour and energy which might be expected from a Minister who had such immense resources placed at his disposal.
 MR. MUNTZ  denied that in the vote which he had given on Friday evening he had been actuated by any other motive than a desire to take that course which he deemed to be best for the interests of the country. He had to look at the question of the proposed guarantee not only with reference to its own merits, but in connection with the complicated circumstances by which it was surrounded; and regarding it in that point of view, he voted not so much in favour of Her Majesty's Ministers, as of the union which subsisted between England and France. He must also observe that the nation for whose use the money was to be guaranteed was not one which had been lavish in her expenditure, as was proved by the trifling amount of her debt; while, so far as Turks individually were concerned, he should add, that, having had many business transactions with them, he had never lost a shilling by them, but had always found them most honourable and fair in their dealings. He thought therefore that there was a very good prospect for the repayment of the money.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  thought that in the present case, as in others which it had been said required administrative reform, the facts would be found not to be so strong as the statement of the noble Lord might have led the House to imagine, and that the House would, after a careful consideration of the papers on this subject, come to the conclusion that the course which had been taken by the Government was the only proper one which they could have adopted. He considered that the great expense of Ordnance surveys had arisen from the constant alteration, without sufficient information, of the scale on which they were to be made. The Ordnance survey of Scotland was commenced before
 1319 desideratum 1320 l., l.
 MR. WILSON  rose and suggested that this was a question that ought to be addressed to the Treasury. With regard to the 150,000 l. l. l., l.
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I did not say anything about the loan upon Friday night, but I voted with the minority. The right hon. and learned Member will admit that I, at all events, have not been inconsistent in the course which I have taken; but I think that there is no difficulty in defending the vote which I gave upon that occasion.
 1285 1286 "It is difficult to say whether the leaders of the Radicals or the leaders of the Tories—whether Lord Derby, Mr. Bright, or Mr. Disraeli—have done most to awaken us to a perception how mischievous, at critical conjunctures, free legislative assemblies may become. The plain truth is, that Parliamentary government is, in time of war, an embarrassment, a danger, and an anomaly, and we have to thank the advocates of an extended suffrage and the supporters of rotten boroughs for making it so plain. Legislative bodies are needed for legislation and control. They are not needed, and they are not fitted for executive action, especially in moments of peril and difficulty. The seldomer Parliament meets, and the shorter time it sits during actual hostilities, the better for the country which it represents, and the better for its own dignity and influence." 1287 Economist 1288 1289 claqueurs
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he did not consider that the annual interest of this loan was a very serious matter; but he thought it would have been much better and wiser if France had guaranteed l00,000 l. l. l. s.
 MR. PHILIPPS  said, he looked more to the political than to the financial embarrassments which might arise, and thinking that those political embarrassments
 1313
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  said, he had been quite willing to rest under the imputations and misrepresentations which had been made out of doors with regard to his conduct upon the Vote of Friday night; but when the right hon. Gentleman the Recorder for London deliberately rose in his place and accused him of having taken the House by surprise, he felt called upon to address a few remarks to the House in reply. In the first place, he believed that if ever a division had been fairly announced and fairly taken it was that on Friday, and he ventured to assert that, if there had been any wish to deal with the subject unfairly, a large, majority on their side might have been secured. From the soreness which had been exhibited upon this question by those who had voted in the majority, he could not help thinking that they had less consciousness of right than they wished to be supposed, and that they felt that the argument was on the side of the minority, and that the only argument which could be used in support of the Convention was, that it was already made, and that therefore the House must vote for it. Now that the country was at war, he, for one, was most anxious that it should be carried on with energy. There was no sacrifice that ought not to be made to carry it on with vigour; but, at the same time, peace was worth all the wars in the world, and no exertion or sacrifice would be too great that would secure it. If he had thought that the vote which he gave on Friday would injure the cause of this country in the slightest degree, he should have refrained from recording it; but he had given it because he conscientiously believed that this Convention would not aid or assist in the accomplishment of the objects which the country had at heart. He believed that he was right in the course which he had taken, and he did not see why, because he happened to differ from hon. Gentlemen on either side of the House, he should have motives and designs attributed
 1295 casus belli 1296
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the Lord Advocate had very adroitly avoided the real question before them—namely, whether the Government had acted fairly by that House in this matter—and had confined himself entirely to the discussion of what he had disclaimed all intention of entering into—namely, which of the different scales should be adopted for Scotland. They had been told that the great weight of authority was in favour of the larger scale; but what they complained of was, that they had had no opportunity of discussing the very papers which
they were now told contained so much information. Who were the great authorities of whom the learned Lord spoke? For all they knew to the contrary, they might be the great landed proprietors or municipal bodies who wished to have a twenty-five-inch survey for sanitary and other purposes at the expense of other people. The Government had acted in this matter on a principle analogous to that of hanging a man first and trying him afterwards. When the Estimates of the preceding year were brought forward they were told that this question was a grave
 1321
 MR. SPOONER  begged to put a question to the Vice President of the Board of Trade, as to the manner in which the sum of 150,000 l. l.,
 MR. LAING  said, his vote was given without any previous concert with any other Member before be entered the House, and he would leave it to the country to judge whether he did wrong in endeavouring to stop, by his vote, what he believed to be the most dangerous and vicious system of guarantees at the outset. He believed that they (the minority) had taught the Government a useful lesson, stopped the mischief at the fountain head, and done good service to the country. It had been imputed to the minority that they had shown a disregard for the French alliance. Now, what was the simple history of the vote which he gave? Strongly as he felt the financial objections to the loan, the main objection which occurred to his mind was that the particular form of guarantee proposed was one which involved great difficulties and complications in their future relations with France. He could not for a moment imagine that the Emperor of the French, acquainted as he was with the institutions of tins country, knowing that the House of Commons habitually and constitutionally took cognisance of questions of this kind, would have taken umbrage at the House of Commons for exercising their constitutional privilege to the extent of saying that assistance should be given to their Turkish ally in one form rather than another. No Member of that House felt more the importance—the absolute and vital necessity—of maintaining unimpaired the French alliance, than many of those who voted in the minority; but he would tell the supporters of the measure that the danger to the French alliance did not arise from a fair and deliberate expression of opinion on the part of the House of Commons, but from the clamour and agitation and pressure from without to which the House of Commons might in an incautious moment be induced to give way. The alliance with France
was cemented by too many ties of interest to be disturbed by a fair, and frank, and constitutional expression of
 1311
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he had voted against the Resolution the other night simply because, having listened to the arguments adduced on both sides, and considered them according to the best of his judgment, he had come to the conclusion that a more indefensible proposition had never been laid before the House. Politically it was most objectionable, because it sowed the seeds of future dissensions with the utmost certainty; and commercially, because it was pitiful to exact a mortgage from so wretched a country as Turkey for a debt which she would be quite unable to defray. If the allied Powers were really desirous of assisting Turkey, instead of granting a loan, let them give her the sum of money which she required as a free gift. He did not deny that Turkey might stand in need of assistance, but he objected to this Convention because they were calling upon Turkey to give a security which, though it might be the best she had it in her power to give, was in reality of no value at all. It was not a question of Turkey's desire to be honest—she had not the power of being so. He had no doubt that the people of this country would be quite willing to support a proposition for giving to Turkey a sum of 2,500,000 l., 1294
 MR. DEEDES  said, that, whilst the hon. Gentleman took credit for being actuated by patriotic motives, he insinuated that some Members of the majority regretted the course they had taken, and that if they had the same opportunity again they would not vote in the same direction. He for one protested against that interpretation being put on his vote. They had satisfied their own consciences in voting as they did, and they were not afraid of meeting their constituents upon it. For himself he should repeat the vote he had given on Friday, if he had the opportunity. He did not, at the same time, entirely approve of the terms of the loan. He thought the political considerations involved were of greater moment than the financial. The financial was but a prospective difficulty, whilst the political one appeared to be imminent, and to some extent unavoidable. If the vote had been the other way, he thought the Government would find itself placed in great difficulty with the French Government.
 MR. KIRK  said, after the observations of the hon. Member for Manchester he felt bound to state his reasons for voting as he did on Friday night. The first reason was, that the French maintained an army of 120,000 men in the Crimea, while the English army did not exceed 30,000; and, therefore, if the whole sum of 5,000,000 l. 1310
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, he was as little of a  claqueur 1290 1291 1292
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he thought the Vote of Friday night had substantially taken many hon. Member by surprise. It had come by surprise on him. He did not vote at all, but if he had thought that the consequences would have been so serious as it now seemed to have been, he would have given his vote in unqualified support of Government. It had been said that lending money to Turkey was only a means of rendering her dependent instead of independent, and they had been told a great deal about the superiority of Russia over Turkey. England was, year by year, paying interest on
 1297 l.
 MR. CROSSLEY  said, he always voted in favour of the Government of the day if his conscience permitted him to do so, and he utterly denied that in the vote which he gave on Friday evening he was actuated by factious motives. He thought that if they were not to be permitted to
 1312
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL : Yes; in the event of any such special claim being made.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL : Under the pension warrant, the mother and sister of
 1281
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, the question of which the hon. Gentleman had given notice would require from the Government a statement of what were the reinforcements they had to send to the Crimea; and, although the hon. Member had, in the course of his remarks, considerably reduced the proportions assumed by his notice, still he thought that, even under this modified form, he must ask the House to support him in declining to give the explanation asked for. The facts of which the hon. Gentleman wished to he put in possession could not be given without affording to the enemy very valuable information. As regarded Russia, there was no information which was more acceptable to the English Government—none which was more promptly forwarded to our generals, than information relative to the strength of the Russian army in the Crimea, the reinforcements which were going there, and the period at which they were likely to arrive; and if he were to give the hon. Gentleman similar information with regard to our own movements, undoubtedly he would be imparting that which the enemy would turn to his own account. With respect to reinforcements, he might state, that our army in the Crimea had received very considerable additions to its number, and at no time had the English forces been so large as at the present moment. The hon. Member had complained of there being no reserve. Now, he was happy to state that a reserve was being formed, and that a very considerable force was now assembled at Malta. There were several thousand troops at that station, and already the commander of the English army before Sebastopol had drawn largely upon that force for reinforcements. The hon. Member had also stated that this House had voted money for the support of a militia force of upwards of 130,000 men, while, at present, not one-half of that number was in existence. In stating that the militia force was nearly 100,000 men below the number voted by Parliament, the hon. Member made a mistake by confusing the embodied and the disembodied militia. The force for which Parliament voted supplies was one including as well the disembodied as the embodied militia. The number of embodied militiamen might perhaps be
 1316
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he had voted for the Resolution because he considered it was impossible to separate the financial from the political grounds on which it stood, and because the latter counted for something in the present critical and serious position of the country. Lord Aberdeen, an advocate for peace, had launched this country into an aggressive war with Russia; and, with the exception of France, this country had no allies, nor was likely to have any. Prussia was neutral; Austria was the same, and was likely to be so, according to the meaning of Count Buol's answer to the noble Lord the Member for London after the 18th April. In what position, then, would this country be placed if the whole force of Russia should be directed
 1293 per se,
 MR. PALK  rose, pursuant to notice, to call upon the Government to give some explanation of the measures which they had taken to reinforce our army serving in the Crimea. The hon. Member said that in entering on the subject he had no wish to ascertain from the Government the exact number of men or the amount of ammunition, shell, and shot which had been sent, or which were intended to be sent out to the seat of war. He desired, however, to obtain some information as to what were the intentions of Her Majesty's Ministers with reference to the energetic prosecution of the war, and whether they intended to carry it on as befitted a great nation, powerful in all the means and appliances of war; or whether reinforcements were to be dribbled into the Crimea, consisting of young men unfitted for the duties they had to perform? He found that the forces of this country, when engaged in war in the year 1813, had amounted to a total of 228,000 regular troops, besides 28,000 British soldiers in India and those who served in the militia, &c., making a total of 949,000 men under arms. Of that large force 749,000 men were drawn from the British islands. Now he was not aware that since the year 1813 there had been any falling off whatever in the resources of this great empire; on the contrary, he should contend that from the period to which he referred up to the present moment England had progressed largely in population and in wealth, while she enjoyed the advantage, if advantage indeed it could be called, of a reformed Parliament. That being the case he could see no good reason for the difficulty said
 1314 1315
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  denied that he had given the pledge that had been represented.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  wished to put himself right with the House as to the promise which he had made when this subject was last under discussion, and which had been somewhat misrepresented by the noble Lord the Member for Totness. On that occasion it was stated that an experiment of the twenty-five-inch scale
 1322 1323
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : It is impossible to answer questions taken piecemeal from a long course of negotiations between Her Majesty's Government and one of the Sovereigns in alliance with Her Majesty. All I can say with regard to myself is, that I always thought that the Crimea was the place where the most
 1283
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, no other course could now be pursued than that proposed by the noble Lord at the head of the Government. The Bill contained over seventy clauses, of which but thirteen had passed, and the period had arrived at which the House of Lords had announced it would receive no new Bills. He had, throughout the weary debates on the measure, refrained from replying to imputations cast on him, fearing to endanger the Bill by personal altercations, but he would take that opportunity of saying a few words on the course pursued by Government. In the month of May last the Irish Executive was called on by the hon. and learned Serjeant, who had charge of the Bill, to take it up, as there was no prospect of passing it in his hands. His right hon. Friend the Chief Secretary for Ireland had then an opportunity of catching popular favour and support in that House, by professing to adopt the Bill as it stood. He might have used it as a net to catch political flies, but he preferred the policy of candour and truth, and stated fairly that he could only recommend the Government to take up the measure in such a shape as to afford a fair prospect of passing it into law. The time was favourable for passing such a measure, and his right hon. Friend distinctly shadowed out the modifications he proposed. The hon. and learned Serjeant accepted the proposition, and expressed his gratitude to the Government. His right hon. Friend then modified the Bill, so as that, securing as much justice to the tenant as practicable, he might still hope for general support. He did not anticipate the opposition he had met with. Hon. Members had reproached him (Mr. FitzGerald) with an alteration of his opinions and an abandonment of his pledges; he wished to state that he had altered none of his opinions on the question, and was still as favourable to the tenant as ever, but, as a very humble member of the Government, he conceived that he would not be justified in asking to have his individual opinions on that particular question carried out to their full extent, and he felt called upon to sacrifice his
 1346
 MR. MITCHEL  said, he must also express a hope that hon. Members would not be unnecessarily brought down to the House, but that the discussion would be positively fixed for Thursday.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that he had gathered from all sides of the House, both from those who were friendly and those who were hostile to the measure, one opinion in which they all appeared to concur—namely, that it was impossible to secure
 1351
 MR. MOFFATT  said, that if the opinion put forward by the right hon. Gentleman
 1352
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, his notion of consulting the dignity and character of the House of Commons was totally distinct from that of the right hon. Gentleman, who appeared to think that the House of Commons should be guided in its discussion of measures according to the probability of their being entertained or rejected by the House of Lords. That was a doctrine which he could not adopt. No doubt the rule which had been adopted by the House of Lords was a good one. It was founded on the fact that the House of Commons had been in the habit of sending up to that House a great number of Bills at a late period of the Session; but that reason did not apply in the present instance. There was not such a flood of measures going up to the House of Lords as would make it necessary for their Lordships to apply the rule to the present measures. Reference had been made to the number of notices of Amendments, but it was a remarkable fact that not one of those Amendments had reference to the principle of the Bill. He believed that the country was very anxious that the Bills should pass, and he therefore hoped the House would enter fully into the discussion of them on Thursday next.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, as they had only an hour to proceed with the Limited Liability Bill, he thought it would be more convenient to those hon. Members who might wish to discuss its provisions if he were to postpone the Committee till Thursday. He would, therefore, propose that the Bill be committed on Thursday, at 12 o'clock.
 LORD NAAS  said, the resolution of the noble Lord to withdraw the Bill did not in the least take him by surprise. At that period of the Session, it must be quite
 1345
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  said, there was not a single clause in either of the Bills to which some hon. Member or other did not object. The whole of the Report of the Commissioners was against the Bills; practical experience was against them—honesty was against them. ["No, no!"] He was prepared to put before the Committee a case, founded on the experience of other countries in such matters, which could hardly fail to induce it to pause. He entreated the noble Lord at the head of the Government to postpone the Bills till next Session, especially as it was impossible that they could pass at that late period.
 MR. A. STAFFORD  said, he regretted that the noble Lord had not stated his intention last evening, though he must say that the noble Lord had used the Bill with admirable dexterity. He (Mr. A. Stafford) had had the management of property in Ireland for many years, and he could not sympathise with those who were the promoters of the Bill, although he had
 1348
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that he attributed the death of the measure to the conduct of the Members on the Opposition Bench, and especially to the most inconsistent conduct of the right hon. and learned Gentleman, the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier) as regarded the whole question.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that although he made an unsuccessful appeal to the Government last night, after the experience of that morning he felt bound to renew it. A Bill had been withdrawn that morning because the House of Lords had determined that they would not take the second reading of any Bill which was not of an urgent character after that day, and what prospect was there of passing the Bills now under consideration during the present Session? Several most important Amendments were upon the paper—specially he would refer to those of the hon. Member for Belfast, and it was most important that they should be fully and considerately discussed. It was impossible that that could be done if the Bill was to go to the other House in sufficient time; while, on the other hand, if the Bill was not intended to pass, there could be no use in proceeding with it.
 MR. FRENCH  said, he was surprised at the course taken by the noble Lord that day. He would remind the noble Lord that he had recently expressed an opinion that this was a measure of so important a character, and so exceptional as regards the rule of the House of Lords, that it was his determination to persevere with it. He now asked whether the noble Lord had dealt fairly with the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny (Mr. Serjeant Shee) in the course he had taken in not communicating his intention to that hon. and learned Gentleman. He did not think that the noble Lord had given any reason sufficient to justify his sudden departure from his original resolution. Not that he (Mr. French) believed that the measure in its present shape would prove satisfactory; but he believed that the noble Lord, by the course he had taken, would inflict a serious blow to the hopes and expectations of the people of Ireland. He wished to ask the noble Lord whether he was determined to withhold all protection from the poor tenants in Ireland? The noble Lord, when he had come to his present determination, should at all events hand over the measure to the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny, who was credulous enough to entrust the measure to the Government, in the belief that they were sincere in their determination to pass it during the present Session.
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, they had been for two hours and a quarter engaged in a useless discussion, and had the same time been employed in discussing the provisions of the Bill, the Bill might have been passed. He thought the sooner they now passed to some other business the better.
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, he thought the noble Lord had exercised a wise discretion in withdrawing the measure, and he knew that was the opinion of the hon. and learned Serjeant the Member for Kilkenny. With respect to another Bill, brought forward by the late Secretary for Ireland (Sir W. Somerville), which likewise affected the condition of the tenantry of that country, he hoped the noble Lord would exercise his influence with that right hon. Gentleman to withdraw it also.
 MR. GLYN  said, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would fix Thursday morning as the positive time for bringing on the subject, as he and other hon. Members had other important engagements which would make it very inconvenient for them to attend the House at that hour with an uncertainty of the discussion coming on.
 MR. GLYN  said, the Amendment of the hon. Member for Belfast was a most important one. It was not probable that the law Lords would relax the rule of their Lordships' House in favour of those measures.
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he hoped the noble Lord would put off the consideration of both the Bills—the Partnership Bill and the Limited Liability Bill. They both, emanated from the Board of Trade, the heads of which knew nothing about trade. Those Bills would introduce a system of trades' unions, which would be most dangerous to the public and of no benefit whatever to the parties themselves. He must deny that the system had worked well in America. It had, on the contrary, acted prejudicially to the real interests of the community.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he considered that the House had stopped short of a measure when they had arrived at the only beneficial part of it. The best description which could be given of the labours of the Government in reference to the subject was that which was to be found in the last chapter of "Rasselas"—namely, a conclusion in which nothing was concluded.
 MR. BRADY  said, he thought the withdrawal of the Bill at that late period of the Session would lead to great disappointment in Ireland. He was also convinced, however, that it would not in its present shape have given satisfaction in Ireland; and, shorn as it was of many of its best provisions, he could not on the whole regret the loss of it. He knew no class more interested in the passing of a good measure than the conservative Members for Ireland. Nothing would tend more to increase the value of their property
 1347
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he thought that the House would put itself in a ridiculous position if it deferred to a rule made by the House of Lords. Hon. Members must know very well that a Bill of much importance was passed last year by that House, although the day fixed for taking second readings had passed. Whether the House of Lords would relax its rule or not was a matter for the noble Lord at the head of the Government to consider; he ought to know better than that House could what was the chance of the success of the Bill elsewhere. For his own part, he (Mr. Bright) could only say that wherever he went he met with the most earnest inquiries with regard to the passing of the Bills. There could be no doubt but that the people generally—with the exception perhaps of a few capitalists, who found that they got on very well under the present system—believed that the present state of the law was unjust in principle, and injurious in practice in its effect upon trade, and that they looked with anxiety for its speedy alteration. Under such circumstances, he should advise the noble Lord—it was not often he advised him—to stand upon his resolution of going on with the Bill on Thursday. He believed that the Bishops were not adverse to the Bill—and hence he could not but think that Government pressure might easily pass the Bill through the other House.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he thought that, to account for the absence of certain Members of the Government on the occasion referred to, by an accident, was a pleasing delusion, for he had himself seen some of them in the precincts of the House at the time, and there was no doubt they had shirked the division. He hoped that next year the whole responsibility of introducing a measure on tenant right would be thrown upon the Government, and that no private Member, whatever might be his motive, would take up a question which he could have no chance of settling. It was the bounden duty of the Government to bring in a Landlord and Tenant Bill on the earliest opportunity next year, and to pass it through; but, during the present Session, the noble Lord had merely toyed with the question, and had left his own supporters in doubt as to whether he could be serious in attempting to carry the measure.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he was at a loss to understand the violent language used by hon. Members in regard to the withdrawal of a Bill which the House had been told by hon. Gentlemen opposite was utterly valueless. To have persevered with the measure under present circumstances would have been, in his opinion, a waste of time and a mere mockery, and the noble Lord had adopted a manly, an independent, and an honourable course in withdrawing it. The Bill did not, in the least, touch the great evil of Ireland, which was the existence of the cottier tenancy.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he hoped the noble Lord would not take counsel from a declared enemy of the Bills.
 MR. VANCE  said, he had consulted the opinions of several persons, and had ascertained that, in their opinion, the first Bill would be a dead letter, and that the second would be one for legalising schemes of fraud.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he would put it to the noble Lord at the head of the Government whether there was any practical good in persisting in going on with the Committee. No man could say that there was a chance of the Bill passing the House of Lords. The subject was one of very great importance, and he himself saw his way to very lengthened discussions. The noble Lord would be taking up one or two days with the discussion on the measure without any probability of passing it, and, moreover, the discussion it would be subjected to would be damaging to it.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he was not surprised at the course taken by the noble Lord at the head of the Government; on the contrary, he did not see what other course at that, the eleventh hour, he could have adopted. At the same time he must express his regret at the present unsettled state of the question. He agreed with the hon. and learned Solicitor-General for Ireland, that it was useless for Irish Members to attempt to carry out all their individual views on the subject. The Committee had treated the question in the fairest manner; and it was at the request of Irish Members themselves that the two measures which were founded on their Report were not passed last Session. They had now been spending their time in discussing a measure which excited great difference of opinion in that House formerly, and which was rejected in another place. The House had been asked to accept the Bill in its present shape as an instalment. He objected to an instalment doctrine. If the subject was to be legislated upon at all, it should be in a manner which would set the question at rest. He had believed from the first that the Bill would turn out an abortion; and he hoped that the Government would in future deal with the subject in a more satisfactory manner.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he wished to ask the Government whether they were quite certain that the House of Lords would receive those measures after the Resolution they had adopted—viz., that no Bill would be read a second time in the Upper House after that day.
 MR. DE VERE  said, he deeply regretted the shipwreck of such an important measure, which he thought was calculated to produce great good. Mutilated as the Bill was, it yet contained the germ of good, and notwithstanding all the alterations which had been made in it, it would have afforded great encouragement to the improving tenant. He regretted its withdrawal, more particularly because it would have led to the investment of capital, removed dissensions, reconciled class to class, and secured the devotion of the united energies of the Irish people to one common object. He regretted the withdrawal also, because he believed it would revive that agitation which had been the misfortune of his country, and which he had hoped would soon cease for ever. He did not see in the Bill any assertion of the principle of fixity of tenure, but he did see in it a provision for stability of tenure, and on that ground he lamented its loss. Though he did not attribute to the Government any want of sincerity, yet he thought they had not exhibited that energy in the matter which was requisite to ensure success. By the speech of the noble Lord that morning, they had pledged themselves to renewed attempts at legislation, and he trusted that when the subject again came before the House, the Government would give a fair and energetic support to the principles on which the Bill was founded.
 MR. KENNEDY  said, he must congratulate the Government in having passed over this measure, as people would have an opportunity before the next Session of reconsidering the matter in connection with the manner in which Ireland was represented in that House. They had had forty-eight Irish Members voting for retrospective compensation, and only nineteen against it. If five to two of the representatives of England had voted upon any matter, it would have been carried;
 1342
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he had not had the remotest idea when he entered the House that morning, that the Bill was to be withdrawn. He did not at all concur in such a course, and, at all events, it ought to have been communicated to the House at an earlier period. When, however, they remembered that on the division upon the
 1343 "Resolved, that the Chief Secretary for Ireland publicly stated in his place, on behalf of the Government, that, in the event of his Amendments to the 14th clause of the Tenants' Compensation Bill being adopted, the full strength of the Administration should be given to carry that clause, and generally the other provisions of the Bill; that, notwithstanding such distinct assurance, three Cabinet Ministers and four other Members of the Government, though all in the House, declined to vote for the 14th clause, amended as proposed by the Irish organ of the Administration; that we consider such conduct had the appearance of a breach of faith on the part of the Government to the Irish Members and to Ireland; that, therefore, to remove all misapprehension, we call upon the Prime Minister to move the reinstatement of the 14th clause and to secure for the Motion the Support of his entire Administration, and thus fulfil the assurance given to the country by the Chief Secretary for Ireland." 
 
 "House of Commons, July 9. "My Lord—We, the undersigned Members of Parliament, feel called upon to express our deep disappointment at finding, from the division lists of Thursday last, that the Motion to expunge the 14th clause of the Tenants' Compensation Bill was carried against the Government in the absence of nine of its Members; seven of whom, including three Cabinet Ministers, had been in the House, but left it before the division on that Motion. This defection, and the example it gave, having contributed mainly to the loss of that clause, we now respectfully request your Lordship, as head of the Government, to have its reinsertion moved at a future stage, supported by the united strength of all Ministerial Members. We wish it also to be understood of the Bill, with the Government Amendments, that though, in its mutilated state, some may accept it as a small instalment of just demands, it cannot be taken as a final settlement of them. We have the honour to be, &c." 
 
 (Signatures of Members.)
 MR. W. BROWN  said, he must express his astonishment that the Government should have brought forward Bills in the face of the Report of a Committee which was decidedly against any such measures.
 MR. KIRK  said, that the question was not properly understood by the Irish Members generally. The present state of the cottier tenantry in Ireland was but the result of English legislation. He hoped that in the next Session such a Tenant Right Bill would be introduced that would give satisfaction to all parties.
 MR. DUFFY  said, he was also glad of the withdrawal of the Bill, for, in the state to which it had been reduced, it would have proved an insult and a curse to Ireland. He did not know what the genuinely independent Irish Members on the Ministerial benches, who had so faithfully served the Government hitherto, would think when they found that at so late a period of the Session the reward to which they had looked forward was withdrawn from them; but if the people of Ireland followed his recommendation, they would never again allow themselves to be deluded by promises which at the last moment were thus broken.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, in the present position of this Bill, and at the present period of the Session, I think it is the duty of Her Majesty's Government to state to the House the course which, in our opinion, it would be most advisable to pursue with regard to this measure. It is impossible to overstate the importance of this question as bearing upon the feelings, the opinions, and the interests of Ireland. It is a subject which has for many years excited the deepest interest in Ireland, and has moreover enlisted strong and decided opinions in opposite directions in regard to the subject matter of which this Bill treats. On the one hand, those who have advocated what is commonly called tenant right have urged changes in the existing law, interfering to a very great extent with the transactions between landlord and tenant, and affecting in a very great degree the present rights of these respective parties. Those who have advocated that change have founded their opinions upon facts and reasoning which are familiar to those who have attended to this subject. On the other hand, there are an important class of persons in Ireland who have resisted that change, who have argued that it would be unjust, would affect existing rights, and would involve an interference not either exceptional or just. This question having for many years agitated very strongly the public mind in Ireland, having led to many and long discussions in this House, having led to the introduction of several measures, none of which were ultimately successful, and the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Sejeant Shee) having this year introduced a Bill founded in a great degree upon Bills which had passed this House, Her Majesty's Government were appealed to to undertake the conduct of the measure, to mould it in such a manner as might suit their views, and so make themselves responsible for recommending it to the adoption of the House. I am ready to confess now that which I have stated over and over again, both here and upstairs in the
 1339 1340 1341
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he could assure the hon. and learned Gentleman there was no foundation whatever for the idea that a difference of opinion among the Members of the Government, with regard to the measure, was one of the reasons which led to its withdrawal. It was perfectly true, as the hon. and learned Gentleman stated, that upon the division on the 14th clause certain Members of the Government were absent. As he (Lord Palmerston) had before observed, he was very sorry that this should have been the case, but it happened also on other occasions on which the Government were very anxious to muster all their forces. Their absence was purely accidental; he could go through the whole list; to explain how each happened to be away at that particular moment; but the ground on which he withdrew the Bill was simply one of time. If it were now May instead of July, he should persevere with the Bill, but every hon. Member must see that, to do so now, would be a pure waste of time.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he agreed with the hon. Member for Manchester, that, whenever the opinion of the country was earnestly expressed for a change in the law, it would be unfitting in that House to regulate its proceedings by any rule which the House of Lords might have laid down. It should, however, be remembered what the Resolution of the House of Lords was. It was a qualified rule, and embodied in it words to the effect that they would not read a Bill a second time unless under peculiar circumstances
 1353
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he exceedingly regretted that the business of the House should interfere with the private convenience of hon. Members, but Government could not command or control those things, and he hoped that a sense of public duty would reconcile hon. Members to accommodate themselves to that portion of time which the public interest rendered
 1349
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he had considered the Bills attentively, and he regarded them as being a very great improvement in the commercial law of the country. He also believed that they were in unison with the opinions of a great majority of the Members of that House; at all events, he was quite convinced that they were much desired by a great majority of the country. He conceived that there was ample time for a calm discussion of their provisions, and that on Thursday hon. Members might well discuss both the principles and details of the two measures. As to whether the House of Lords would relax its rules for the purpose of passing the Bills in question, that, he considered, would depend upon the majority by which the Bills might be carried in that House. He could only say that should the House, after full discussion, consider the measures to be deserving of their authority, that would be the beat way of carrying them through the other House of Parliament.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he would appeal to the hon. Member who had charge of the Bill whether it was worth while to go on with it at the present advanced period of the Session? From the difference of opinion which existed on the subject, and in the face of the Resolution of the House of Lords not to receive any Bills for a second reading after the 24th of that month, there was very little hope of the present measure being passed into a law during the Session.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he would appeal to the House whether it was expedient to proceed further with the Bill. If they now proceeded further with it, they might only create obstacles in their way,
 1366
 THE MARQUESS OF BLANDFORD  said, he wished the hon. Member for Southwark would devote his attention to Bills affecting persons entertaining his own peculiar religious opinions, and not interfere with Bills of the kind before the House. The Bill was most loudly called for by the religious aspect of the metropolis, which showed that one district overflowed with the means of religious instruction, while other districts were totally destitute in that respect. The measure was founded upon the third Report of the Commissioners for the Subdivision of Parishes, and had been prepared with much thought and consideration, and after due inquiry into the circumstances of the case. The subject was fully debated in the House last year, and the measure then submitted was thrown out on account of some objectionable clauses, though the importance of dealing with the question was not denied. The Report of the Commission to which he had alluded stated that there were in the city about sixteen parishes, in which, including the schools, the attendance on Sunday mornings did not exceed, on an average, sixty or seventy persons. On the other hand, there was in other parts of the metropolis a dense population greatly requiring church accommodation; and he thought, under such circumstances, it was necessary for Parliament to legislate, and allow the abundance which existed on the one side to supply the deficiency of the other.
 THE MARQUESS OF BLANDFORD  said, he wished to move in line 37 to leave out the words, "Her Majesty's Commissioners for building new churches," and insert the words, "the Parish Commissioners," which was in accordance with a recommendation made by the Commissioners by whom the Bill had been framed. He would beg also to point out that as the Church Building Commission would expire in a year from that time, it would not be wise to place in their hands the power of carrying out the proposed measure.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he objected to the Bill as a means of providing
 1373
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he wished the noble Lord the Member for Totness to remember what had passed before the second reading of the Bill was moved. The right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary said that a strong opposition was to be expected to the measure; but he could not have meant that that opposition was to come from the workpeople, and the hon. Member (Mr. Kirk) who was charged with the opposition to the Bill, and was himself engaged in the trade, had stated all the objections that existed to legislation on the subject. He (Lord J. Manners) had waited to hear if there were any arguments by hon. Members against the Bill except from the hon. Gentleman who moved its rejection; but even that hon. Gentleman had not urged a single argument against the principle of the measure—on the contrary, he had spoken as if he was in favour of the principle. If there were no persons in Ireland who could be affected by the provisions of the Bill there could be no ground for opposition to it, as it would interfere with no man. The only question at issue, however, was whether those enormities which existed in connection with the subject should be suffered to exist in any part of the kingdom because the hon. Member was opposed to supervision and inspection as an inconvenience to manufacturers and masters. He (Lord J. Manners) submitted to the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary whether it was not most consistent with the interests of masters themselves to pass the Bill during the present Session, as it would give them sufficient notice and enable them to make such preparations to meet the change as might be deemed necessary. The House of Lords had almost unanimously sanctioned not only the principle of the Bill but also its main provisions; and it was, therefore, not likely that the House would interpose any delay if the Bill went through the House of Commons, inasmuch as it concerned the interests and well-being of an important portion of the working classes. He hoped, therefore, the House would agree to the second reading of the measure.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, the Bill was very much sought for and would be attended with great advantage to the suburban districts of the metropolis. Some of its provisions were certainly objected to, but those objections might be reserved until the House went into Committee.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, it was his intention to oppose the Bill. It had been introduced into the House by no Member of the Government; no explanation had been given with regard to it; and, considering that the subject had come before them at that late period of the Session, and that the Bill threw so much power into the hands of the Bishops and the Church Commissioners, he felt himself fully justified in moving that the House do resolve itself into Committee that day three months.
 MR. FREWEN  said, he thought the hon. Member for Southwark had been misled by the preamble of the Bill. It did not provide for any compulsory legislation on the subject; it contained provisions for the union of contiguous benefices only in cases where the inhabitants should petition for such union.
 MR. HINDLEY  said, he believed that if proper preachers were provided, the least frequented churches in the City of London would speedily be filled.
 MR. G. DUNCAN   said, he objected to the Bill, and he denied that any hardship existed which required to be remedied—at least as far as the district with which he was acquainted was concerned. He hoped, therefore, the Motion would be withdrawn, as he did not think it would in any way conduce to the benefit of the working classes.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he considered that the Bill was likely to introduce a vast amount of abuse. Besides, it had not at all obtained the notoriety to which its importance entitled it. He objected to the powers it contained being lodged in the heads of the Church, powers which belonged properly only to the Government and the Parliament of the country. It certainly was the opinion of the whole country that the heads of the Church should be relieved from all legislative and administrative functions, and that their attention should be confined to the sacred duties to which they had been called. He thought the hon. Member for Southwark would be doing good service to the country in pressing the House to a division on the question.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he objected to proceeding with a Bill of snch importance at so late a period of the Session, the more especially as the Bill was in effect the same as that which had been rejected
 1374
 MR. HADFIELD  said, the question was too important to be decided during the five minutes that yet remained of the sitting; he should, therefore, move that the Chairman report progress.
 MR. GRANVILLE VERNON  said, the difficulty was what was a proper cure of souls for one clergyman. It was difficult, if not impossible, to say how many souls a single clergyman could look after. That was a matter which he considered ought always to be left to the Commissioners, and could not be decided by the House of Commons. Undoubtedly, there ought to be some provision for the more effectual cure of souls in populous parishes than at present existed. In many cases, he thought it would be possible that two clergymen might work together more effectually in one parish than in two distinct parishes.
 MR. GRANVILLE VERNON  said, he should support the measure, but thought that many of its details would require alteration in Committee.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he felt that it would be to betray the interests of the poor creatures whose case he had undertaken not to take the sense of the House on the Bill. No ground could be shown for excluding Ireland from the Bill, though women and children were certainly not employed so long as eighteen hours a day in that country. As regarded the argument that the question should be left to the Government, his reply was that all the great measures which advocated the cause of humanity had been brought before Parliament by private Members—the Slave Trade, Roman Catholic Emancipation, Reform, and others.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, that the Bill stood in a peculiar position, both as regarded that House and the House of Lords. Towards the close of last Session the House of Lords had unanimously passed a Bill that was substantially the same as the present. He therefore thought there was good
 1355 1356 1357 1358 "The facts, as respects the actual hours worked at the bleaching and finishing works, are these:—Some masters will have so much employment as to keep their 'hands' at work for twelve months together, from between six and seven in the morning until eight, nine, and ten at night; and a portion of their 'hands' will occasionally work on to a later hour, and sometimes nearly all night, for two or three nights together. The evidence shows that both at the large and small bleaching and finishing works a very common state of things is that the work goes on for those 'long hours' (as they are called) continuously for many months together; in some instances for so many as six months, in others for twelve months and more together. "Alexander Nightingale, of Mr. Heywood's bleach-works, Salford, in his evidence, said:—I am head maker-up. In the making-up room there are nine boys from eleven to fourteen, and three girls and three boys from about fourteen to about seventeen. The hours of work are sixteen or seventeen per day, and have been for the last three or four months. The boys and girls are always very tired, and there are nearly always one or two of them off sick from working so long; they often complain of their shoulders aching from lifting the cloth, and very often have sore feet; they would all like to have the short-time Bill, although they would earn less, because they would have less labour and more rest. I have heard many of these little lads complain of not having an opportunity of going to a night school, and the girls the same. For a month or six weeks in the year we may not have work for half the day; the rest of the year we are working long hours, sometimes twelve and fourteen, sometimes sixteen, seventeen, and eighteen." 1359 "James Thomson, of Mr. Wallace's bleaching, scouring, and finishing works for cotton and woollens, Burnbank, Glasgow, said:—I am manager of these works, and nephew of the owner. We employ about ten men and forty females. We have that number in summer. Our usual hours are in winter from six till nine (half an hour for meals), and on Saturdays we stop at three, stopping half an hour for breakfast only. In summer the hours are nominally the same, but some of the hands work generally for fifteen hours a day at the very least, for three alternate days a week; but sometimes it is every day in the week, and occasionally from six a.m. to twelve p.m. the whole week through. We did that last summer several times. Three days we worked twenty hours each day. The age of most of our girls is from ten to eighteen. The stove-rooms in which they work are in winter heated up to 100 to 110 degrees; in summer the heat is from 120 to 130 degrees." "I feel, when I am urging the females to work these long hours, I am doing what is not right, but I have been urged to do it to get a lot of goods finished. Sometimes they stay here all night, and then we make a place for them to lie down upon in a store-room upon the pieces of goods unfinished, Sometimes fourteen or more girls will pass the night in this manner, after working nineteen hours, and coming out of those hot places dripping wet with perspiration, and their clothes wet through with it." 1360 1361 s. d. d., s. d. s. d. s. d.; 1362 1363
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, he must accede to the appeal of his hon. and learned Friend, but at the same time, he must express a hope that he would be enabled to introduce a similar measure sufficiently early in the next Session to have it passed into a law. He would, therefore, move that the Chairman Report progress.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he thought that nothing could be more unsatisfactory than that the Government should choose any one they pleased to inquire into subjects
 1369 ex parte
 MR. CHEETHAM  said, he also was opposed to the Bill. He considered that the House ought not to interfere with employment, or, if it did, it should throw the responsibility on the Government.
 MR. COBBETT  said, he was convinced, from his own experience, that the principle of the Bill ought to be approved by the House, even if no further progress could be made with the measure during the present Session. He contended that sufficient evidence had been taken before the Commission, of 1843 to warrant the House in legislating on the subject, and when the Report of Mr. Tremenheere was added to that he thought the House could hardly vote against the principle of the Bill now before them.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he objected to the Bill, on the ground that its provisions were of an arbitrary and exceptionable character, and that it sought to accomplish, by a side wind, an object which it did not honestly avow.
 MR. CROOK  said, he should support the Motion for the second reading. There was nothing in the nature of bleaching operations, which consisted simply in washing and whitening of cloth, to justify the cruelties which marked the present system. They were told that the pressure on labour fluctuated very much; but in some establishments the work was continued night and day all the year round. The hon. Member for Newry (Mr. Kirk) said the bleaching establishments in Ireland were not in the habit of working over-hours. Mr. Tremenheere gave a different account of the matter. He stated that there were many instances of that kind, and among them he mentioned that of the hon. Member's own firm. The hon. Member also stated that very few females were employed in Ireland; whereas Mr. Tremenheere stated that there were 1,100. According to the same authority, there were nine firms in Scotland which never worked over-hours. The Bill mainly affected the neighbourhood of Bolton, which depended greatly for its prosperity on bleaching operations, and, as a native of that town, he would not willingly do anything which tended to injure it; but he thought that some alteration in the system was absolutely necessary.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought it quite reasonable, under the circumstances, that those hon. Members who had taken any interest in the subject matter of the Bill should now be allowed an opportunity of expressing their opinions upon it. The main difference between the present measure and that of last year seemed to him to be that, while the latter was confined to London and other large cities, the Bill now before the House was a general one, applying to the whole country. Now, in his opinion, the extension of the Bill to
 1372
 MR. HENLEY  said, he would suggest that some limit should be placed in regard to the population of benefices about to be united, and would, therefore, move to insert the words: "Provided always that such contiguous benefices do not exceed a population of 2,500.
 MR. NAPIER  said, that certain parties had industriously circulated papers amongst the Members of that House, containing the grossest misrepresentations in connection with the subject. They especially misrepresented the opinions of the people of Ireland upon this question of marriage. He had himself presented a petition from the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in Ireland, which stated that the measure was peculiarly offensive to them, and at variance, as they believed, with the word of God. His constituents—Catholic, as well as Protestant—were equally opposed to the Bill. In anything that had I fallen from him upon the subject, he begged to disclaim saying anything disrespectful of the Nonconformist body. The hon. Member had excluded Scotland from the operation of his measure, but the feelings of the people of Ireland were as much entitled to consideration as the people of Scotland. Should the hon. Member introduce the Bill next year he could promise him the same opposition as he had received this year.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he
 1354
 MR. CUBITT  said, he had voted against the Bill of last Session. He thought it was a hardship that the inhabitants of the City of London should be called upon to support churches beyond their own bounds. At the same time, there were more churches in the City than were required, and under all the circumstances of the case he would vote for going into Committee.
 MR. KIRK  said, he should propose, as an Amendment, that the Bill be read a second time that day three months. If there had been any obstruction to the passing of the Bill, the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. I. Butt) was himself the great obstructor. When the Bill came from the Lords, last year, he (Mr. Kirk) said, that if they omitted Ireland from the Bill he would allow it to pass, but as the owners of bleaching works in Ireland were not guilty of these abominations—as they employed very few females, and no children under fourteen years of age—it was objectionable that they should be put under the provisions of a Bill which had reference to parties who employed children of the tender age of eight and nine years. In Ireland the workpeople went to their employment at six in the morning, and left it at six in the evening. But what said the hon. and learned Member (Mr. I. Butt) on that occasion? Why, that if Ireland were omitted, the whole of the bleaching trade of England would be transferred there. The sort of legislation required was an Act that would not allow the employment of any child under the age of fourteen. He did not think the evidence obtained by the Royal Commission was conclusive upon the subject, and until he came here to attend his Parliamentary duties in February he was not even aware, though himself engaged in the trade, that such a Commission had issued. He held that the matter ought to have been submitted to a Select Committee of that House, in the first instance, with a view to the introduction of a Bill that would lead to a complete settlement of the question. He was quite prepared to let the Bill next year go to a Select Committee, where it could be fairly and honestly considered and matured, and made a Bill that would be equally honourable to the employer and safe to the employed. To such a measure as that he should be the first to give support; but to the Bill in its present shape, containing,
 1364
 MR. WILKINSON  said, that the noble Lord (Lord J. Manners) must not suppose, because hon. Members on that side did not wish to take up the time of the House, that they had no objection to urge to the Bill. He (Mr. Wilkinson) had the interest of the working classes quite as much at heart as the noble Lord, but he feared that the result of the Bill would be, instead of easing that class of too much
 1368
 MR. W.
WILLIAMS  said, he thought that all fear of a measure of a description injuring the manufactures of the country was entirely unfounded. The trade of the country did not depend upon the slavery of a few boys and girls, as any Gentleman who had been connected with commerce was well aware; he, therefore, trusted that the hon. and learned Gentleman would proceed with the Bill.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had already told the hon. and learned Member (Mr. I. Butt) that it was inexpedient at that period of the Session to proceed with the Bill, and not only inexpedient, but even unjust with reference to those who were personally interested in the subject to which it related. He would shortly state to the House the course of events with regard to the measure now under consideration. A Commission was appointed, consisting of Mr. Tremenheere alone, in December last, to inquire into the subject, and it was understood that the Bill which passed the House of Lords last year was to be laid aside until that gentleman's Report was before the House. Well, that Report was not ready before the 7th of June, and not in the hands of Members until the middle of that month. It was then considered advisable that the Report should be circulated amongst the persons
 1365
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he must appeal to the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. I. Butt) who had the charge of the Bill, to know whether he seriously intended to press the measure during the present Session? The Report of the Commission on the subject of the Bill had been but a short time before the public, and as there were a great number of persons deeply interested in the Bill, he thought it was hardly fair to press a measure of such importance at that late period. He did not wish to prejudice the Bill in a future Session, and would therefore abstain from making any remarks upon the objections which he understood might fairly be raised against it.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to a fact which had been mentioned by the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Frewen), namely, that the Bill could only be set in operation at the express desire of the inhabitants of the parishes to which it was to be made to apply. He, therefore, hoped the hon. Member for Southwark would allow the House to go into Committee on the Bill. It was so guarded, or was intended to be so guarded, in its provisions, that the objection to give arbitrary powers to the Church Commissioners or the Bishops did not apply to it.
 MR. CAIRNS  said, that if called upon to say aye or no to the Bill framed as it was at present, he would say "no." Not
 1367
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he would also suggest whether it was worth while to proceed with the measure, as it was obvious it could not be passed that Session. It was clear from the debate that great difference of opinion existed on the subject; and it was doubtful, therefore, even if it went through Committee, that the House of Lords would rescind their rule and permit it to pass through Parliament. He, therefore, put it to his hon. and learned Friend whether he would, under those circumstances, persevere in it?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the hon. Member (Mr. Pellatt) was under a misapprehension as to the consideration the Bill had received. It had been referred to, and carefully considered by, a Select Committee of the Upper House, it had received the full sanction of the Commissioners of the Church, and it had been sent down to the House of Commons with the unanimous consent of the House of Lords. He therefore appealed to the hon. Member to allow it to go into Committee.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he considered that it would be perfectly safe to leave the limit to be defined by the Bishops and the Church Commissioners.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, his only object was that the powers should be placed in the hands of a body capable of carrying them out, and he concurred with his noble Friend, that it would be inconvenient to entrust them with a body whose functions would, under the existing Act of Parliament, expire in twelve months.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, the subject was one of great difficulty. No one could deny the want of church accommodation in the districts around the metropolis; but who could say that the population would not return to the City in the course of a few years? He should vote against proceeding with the Bill any further.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he quite agreed that the interests of the employers should be considered as well as those of the workpeople, and he hoped that the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) would persevere in the course which he had announced it to be his intention to pursue if the Bill were introduced next Session.
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, he should now move that the order for going into Committee on the Bill be discharged. Be-
 1375
 VISCOUNT GODERICH  said, that his impression was that the noble Lord at the head of the Government had not promised a Committee, but only a Commission of inquiry. He did not think that his hon. Friend (Mr. Bright) had been quite just to the Commissioner who drew up the Report upon the question, when he said that the evidence was one-sided. It was certainly taken without the advantage of cross-examination, but both masters and workmen were fairly represented.
 MR. LLOYD DAVIES  said, he should
 1392
 MR. JOHN FOSTER  said, he was entirely in favour of the principle of the Bill, which he would support.
 MR. F. W. RUSSELL  said, he would also urge the postponement of the measure. No Member of that House was opposed to the principle of limited liability for railways and other great Companies; but only to that principle, as applied to small private undertakings. Railway Companies did not come to Parliament merely
 1394
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, as he did not gather from the statement of his hon. Friend what it was for which we paid 10 s.
 MR. LLOYD DAVIES  said, he lived in a neighbourhood where every species of dissent prevailed, and they all availed themselves of the Educational Grant, and with very beneficial effects. There was, however, difficulty in obtaining the Grant which ought not to exist; but he was of opinion that the grant upon the whole was of the greatest service to the country. They had heard something of the quality of teachers, and as to Sunday schools, he thought that the teachers were too highly educated for the class of children whom they had to instruct. He thought they would ill discharge their duty to the country by placing any obstacle in the way of the grant being voted.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said he agreed with the hon. Gentleman that the system generally was good, but he could not conceive why 1000 l.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he quite agreed with the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) that the Government would do well to see if they could not hold out some inducement to get children to attend the schools. He thought that they could not adopt any compulsory system, but they might introduce a system of inducements. For instance, in all the principal towns there might be examinations, and they might offer, he thought, as prizes some of the minor Government situations; such a practice would give the greatest possible inducement to parents to send their children to school, and it would be much better to give such situations as educational rewards than to give them only to Parliamentary influence.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he only wished to give a reason why they ought to go on with the Bill, even at that period of the Session. He believed it was most desirable that the Board of Trade should no longer be entrusted with the duty of granting charters of limited liability. It therefore was a matter of great urgency that Parliament should deal with the question during the present Session. In consequence of the Resolution to which the House came last Session, the Board of Trade had very properly determined not to grant any charter of limited liability until the decision of Parliament on the general subject was known. In fact, the safety-valve of our present Joint-stock system had been screwed down, and was the Board of Trade to act on the Resolution of the House and the general sense of the country, or was it to open the floodgates of private speculation, and grant charters to everybody who came without restriction, or was it to act in every case according to the mere dictates of its absolute unfettered discretion? On the part of the Board of Trade, he protested against having such an odious power entrusted to, or imposed upon any Government Department. No person at the Board of Trade, however experienced or able, should be called upon to decide whether a particular Company should be allowed to carry on business with limited or with unlimited liability. In all such cases the decision ought to depend upon some fixed and intelligible rule laid down by Parliament, by which charters should be granted to  ex debito justitiœ,
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, he begged to ask whether the Government intended to support the Bill before the House for maintaining the salaries of schoolmasters in Scotland at their present amount?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he did not agree with the hon. Member for Bolton (Mr. Barnes), that the system at present in operation was no system at all. On the contrary, he believed that it was the one which was most in accordance with the feelings of the people of the country, and he should regret to see any material alteration made in it. He thought, however, that in future it would be desirable that a statement of the progress and state of education in the country, like that which was appended to the Educational Votes for Ireland, should be laid before the House. He should support the Government against the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, no sufficient explanation had been given as to the extent to which it was intended to carry the contemplated model agricultural schools. It was going too far, he thought, to call upon the country to furnish funds to educate men for such positions as land stewards, farm bailiffs, and the like.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that the hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Treasury had quoted the well-known maxim of Lord Ashburton about common things, but he had failed to show what possible connection there was between common things and hothouses. The fact was that the present proposal was an attempt to divert an educational Vote to other purposes. He did not deny that these things were very well in themselves, but could the hon. Gentleman justify upon his own principles of political economy the grant of public money for them? He challenged the hon. Gentleman to adduce a single instance in which a similar Vote had been passed before.
 LORD NAAS  said, he should offer no opposition to the Vote, for he believed that no institution was managed better than the one in question. Still he thought there was danger in the course taken by the promoters of the institution, which he thought should be confined to agricultural purposes—to teaching men to be good
 1427
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, the observations of the hon. Member for North Lancashire (Mr. Heywood) with respect to the British and Foreign School Society, proved the difficulty of establishing schools in which would be taught only those doctrines which all Christians were supposed to hold in common. He hoped that the right hon. and learned Lord-Advocate would, next Session, cause his Scotch Education Bill to be introduced in the other House.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, that the Bill to which the hon. Member for Manchester had referred, was, in fact, a portion of that centralisation which was so objectionable in matters of education. He could not avoid complaining of the overriding influence of the Church of England in matters of education. The effect of which was, that the children of Dissenters, who were obliged to attend schools in which the clergy had control, were taught one system of religion at school and another at home. The natural result of such a proceeding was most detrimental to religion generally. The system in Ireland was far better than that advocated by the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir J. Pakington). There a day was set apart for the clergy of every denomination to attend
 1422
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he thought there was much force in the observations of the hon. Member for Dungarvan, and he consequently should support the Vote. After the large amount granted for English education, he could not refuse to grant an increase of 10 per cent for Ireland, especially for agricultural objects.
 MR. ARCHIBALD HASTIE  said, he was one of those who were opposed to the Bill, although not at all opposed to the principle of limited liability, as applied to railways, docks, canals, and other undertakings which required a large amount of capital. Such works were of great national importance, but he could see no reason for applying the same principle to Companies who possessed but 20,000 l.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he wished to call attention to the fact that on a previous evening the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone) had stated that they were paying a subsidy in disguise to Turkey in the shape of an exorbitant royalty of 10 s.
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, he could not agree with the mover of the Amendment for the reduction of the Vote, and he could not understand the ground on which the hon. Gentleman rested his argument, for he stated that it was founded on the objection that no assistance was afforded to the poorer districts, whereas he (Mr. Denison) thought he understood his right hon. Friend (Sir G. Grey) to say that the grant was enlarged in order that assistance might be given to the poorer districts. He wished to ask his right hon. Friend to explain more in detail in what manner the assistance was to be extended to the poorer, and especially to the rural poorer districts. With regard to a point which had been referred to, namely, the improvement in the education afforded, causing the scholars to attend for a shorter period than they otherwise would, he had felt so strongly on the subject, that he had given notice of Motion, with a view to establishing a system by which children receiving wages should contribute something towards their education, and he had since been informed that some such system had been adopted, and was found to work satisfactorily. The circumstances which had occurred in connection with the question of education that year had led him to believe that the present system was
 1411
 MR. E. BALL  said, the course taken by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Birmingham (Mr. Muntz) and the observations made by him very much resembled the conduct of certain saints!—["What?"] saints!—who, when they had given a glowing description of the joys of heaven to which they had obtained access, unkindly refused to bridge over the way by which their fellow-creatures might obtain access to the same blissful abode. That hon. Gentleman, having by industry and talent amassed great wealth in the field of individual competition, refused to others the advantages of a measure, the provisions of which he himself could do so well without. The hon. Gentleman had said, that out of the House he had met with none who were in its favour. That must have arisen from the fact, that so well known was the pertinacity of the hon. Gentleman to his own preconceived opinions, that to argue the matter with him would have been perfectly useless. But how were they to ascertain what was the opinion on the subject out of doors, but by the opinion expressed by their representatives within that House; and was it not a fact that on every division on the question there had been a majority of almost two to one in favour of the Bill? All great works had been accomplished by the combination of mind, ability, and property, which no individual energy could have achieved. The supply of water for the metropolis by the New River Company originated from the energetic mind of an individual, but Sir Hugh Myddelton was not able to sustain his project unaided; no sooner, however, was the scheme taken up by a Company than it became a source of wealth to those who embarked in it, and resulted in being one of the greatest blessings that a commercial speculation had ever conferred upon the country. He might also refer to the great mercantile establishments of the metropolis in further illustration of the truth of his proposition—such as the breweries, the joint-stock banks, the mutual assurance societies, and especially the railways. Would the hon. Gentleman say that the railway had accomplished no national good? It really seemed to him that
 1384
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he entirely agreed that nothing could be more objectionable than that the Board of Trade should be entrusted with an arbitrary power, which the wisest of men ought not to exercise, and which that Board possessed no machinery for exercising properly and effectively. He, therefore, had regarded it as a matter of extreme urgency and importance that a satisfactory Bill should be introduced and passed during
 1395
 MR. MIALL  said, he thought that, in whatever manner the Amendment of the hon. Member for Bolton might be dealt with, the Committee were indebted to that hon. Member for raising the present discussion, and for the manner in which he had brought out many of the facts detailed in the Reports of the inspectors. It was important that the Committee should understand the ground on which the opposition to the Vote was pressed, which was not the same ground as that on which the opposition to a general educational system was urged. The great bulk of the education of the people was carried on by themselves, and whatever was done by that House could only, as it were, touch the
 1414 1415
 MR. STRUTT  said, the subject now under consideration was one on which his own opinion was opposed to that of a majority of the House; at the same time, as he entertained a strong apprehension as to the results that might arise from passing the measure, he hoped the House would bear with him while he stated the grounds for that apprehension. He did not deny the necessity of some legislation on the subject. If a Bill were in-introduced for the purpose of defining those schemes which should be considered as involving the necessity of raising a large amount of capital which it was not within the means of an individual to raise, or if it had been proposed to adopt the
 1385 1386 s. d. l., s. 1387 1388
 MR. FRENCH  said, he must complain that the item for building, furnishing, and fitting up new schools in Ireland was only 3,500 l. l. l.
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, the institution had conferred great benefit upon the country. Its object was not to send out schoolmasters in farming, but good practical farmers, acquainted with the cultivation of fruits and plants, as well as the rearing of stock. He hoped the Vote would be agreed to, and was sorry that the opposition to it had originated with an Irish Member.
 MR. GLYN  said, he would second the Amendment, although he did not participate in the general views which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Muntz) had expressed. He, however, was of opinion that the present law regulating the granting of charters was one which could not be maintained, and that it was necessary some measure should be passed on that subject. The Bill ought to be referred to a Select Committee, with a view to ascertain how it bore on the law of bankruptcy here. Those who advocated limited liability were in the habit of appealing to the state of the law in France. But the law of limited liability in that country was introduced under very peculiar circumstances. The prejudices against trade in France on the part of the upper classes were such that they would not embark their capital in trade, which it was desirable they should do, if they were made ostensible partners in any commercial concerns. But there was no such necessity existing in England. It was the opinion of eminent men in France that, although the law of limited liability had to a certain degree succeeded there, it would be inapplicable to England until the law of bankruptcy was made much more stringent, and was assimilated to the law of bankruptcy in France. To that point he had more than once called the attention of the House, but no one had attempted to meet that part of the case. The question with commercial men was, how they were to deal with the question of limited liability in the present state of the law relating to bankruptcy. There was not a single clause in the Bill which met that difficulty. He did not so much object to the principle of the Bill, as to its machinery, and on the whole he thought it would be much better
 1383
 MR. HADFIELD  said, nothing was more obvious than that Government were unable to undertake the education of the people, and that the people must educate themselves. His difficulty was a religious as well as a political difficulty. Education, to be properly conducted, should be religious and moral as well as secular, and the State neither could nor ought to undertake it. In the seventeen years during which the educational grants had been made, 1,467,000 l. l. l. l. l. 1419 l. l. l. l.
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he rose to move, as an Amendment, that the House should, on that day three months, resolve itself into Committee on the Bill. It was one of the most objectionable Bills he had
 1379 1380 l. l l. l; l l. 1381 1382
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, he wished to call the attention of the Committee to a grievance to which the Unitarians were subjected with respect to the British and Foreign Schools. Those schools had received many donations from Unitarians, but those who had the direction of them had gradually introduced nothing but Trinitarian doctrines, to the great annoyance of such Unitarians whose children had attended. A case had been submitted to counsel who advised that such conduct was a breach of trust on the part of the directors. Nothing, however, had been done, and he therefore trusted that the Government would use its influence to put an end to so improper a state of things.
 MR. WILSON  said, that, in reference to the first question, he begged to say that papers had been laid on the table on the Motion of the hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr. W. Ewart), which contained the correspondence and negotiations with regard to the Turkish coal mines. From that correspondence it would be found that those mines were in full operation in two workings; and, therefore, his right hon. Friend (Mr. Gladstone) was mistaken in thinking that the answer which he (Mr. Wilson) had given some time ago referred to a royalty. His answer was, that 10 s. s. s. 1399 s. l. l., l., l. British Queen l. l. l. British Queen l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. WILSON  said, the information sought for was contained in a paper already upon the table.
 Mr. WILSON  said, he was quite willing to defend the items referred to by the hon. Member on the ground that they had reference to the means by which so many persons obtained their livelihood; and as regarded the utility of the purposes to which the money was generally applied, Ireland had set an example which might well be followed by England. The farm buildings at Limerick and Belfast were designed for the benefit of the districts.
 MR. WILSON  said, that the real object of such grants as the present was to afford to the lower classes of the community that kind of knowledge which would best fit them for the performance of their duty in the station of life in which they moved. It would be recollected that a noble Lord had on one occasion—he believed at a meeting—made use of a remarkable expression, having observed that the knowledge which the people most required was "the knowledge of common things," and it was that description of knowledge which such grants as the one now under the notice of the Committee were calculated to supply. Land stewards and others to whom it applied were, in fact, only superior labourers, and, being spread through remote districts in Ireland, they would set an example to others which could not fail to be beneficial. The result would probably be that, by introducing a better system of cultivation, they would
 1426
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department a question in respect to a Bill that had been brought down from the House of Lords, entitled, the Schools Grant Security for Application Bill, and which had reference to the grant in question. When he objected to it at two o'clock in the morning about a fortnight ago, nobody on the Treasury bench knew anything about it. He might state that the Bill proposed to enact that all schools to which any portion of the grant had been given at any time during the seventeen years of its existence, should be brought under the power of the Home Secretary. There was a school to which he subscribed in his own town, to which about fifteen years ago a grant of 250 l. l. l. 1421
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he thought that the right hon. Gentleman must be talking about some different Bill, or else the clause was not English. It distinctly stated, if he understood it, that if any person had received a grant, and did not choose to repay it, then the school in respect of which the grant had been obtained, should not be sold or exchanged or mortgaged without the consent of the Home Secretary, and the Secretary of State was to endorse on the deed his permission in such a case.
 MR. CHEETHAM  said, he would suggest the withdrawal of the Amendment. Although a friend to the general principle of voluntary education, still he could not, considering the beneficial results which had followed the labours of the Government in promoting the cause of education, join in a vote which would practically put an end to those labours.
 Mr. CHEETHAM  said, he quite concurred with the noble Lord, and he should therefore move to diminish the Vote by 2,000 l.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, that all experience showed the contrary of the assertions of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. In the Hanse Towns the principle of limited liability had worked with great success. It was the principle of limited liability which had rendered the United States of America one of the most powerful States in the world. What man with a fortune of 140,000 l. l. l, 1389
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that an application had just been made for an increase of 30 per cent upon the English Vote, and that no objection had been raised by any Irish Member; but now that an additional 10 per cent was asked upon the Irish Vote, and a demand was made for a paltry item of 2,000 l.
 MR. PHILIPPS  said, he thought that, whatever might be the merits of the existing plan, it was the only one that at present could be carried on, and it should receive his support. It was of the greatest importance, however, that the State superintendence should be carried on with tact and discretion, and in such a way as to give encouragement to every effort, however humble, for promoting the education of the country.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he would suggest that the papers should also contain an account of the sum which had been paid to the Turkish Government, not as royalty, but as profit.
 MR. ROEBUCK : Sir, I beg to ask the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown the following question. Major General Chesney was appointed by the Duke of Newcaltle to organise the Turkish Contingent. He accepted that office. When Lord Panmure was appointed to his present position, Major General Chesney was informed that his services would not be required. I beg, therefore, to inquire of the noble Lord whether or not he will have any objection to allow the printing of the letter of the Duke of Newcastle to General Chesney, his acceptance of the office, and Lord Panmure's communication?
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the noble Lord at the head of the Government had denounced the opponents of the Bill as being opponents of free trade. Had the noble Lord read the Bill? Did he know that there was a clause in the Bill limiting its effect to Companies whose capital was 20,000 l., l.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that he did not think the present grant was excessive, and, therefore, he could not agree to the Amendment to reduce it. With respect to the teachers, he thought, considering the class of children to be instructed, that the standard of requirements on the part of the instructor was too high, which led to a system of cramming. What was wanted in an elementary school was to give the children that kind of elementary knowledge which would bring their faculties into play, and render them fit to perform the duties appertaining to their station of life. He believed that if the system which the Government had acted upon had been made a little more elastic a much greater amount of good might have been effected, because he was convinced that the House of Commons never would have complained if in districts where contributions were not to be expected from the inhabitants, the Government had acted with liberality, and had established schools wherever they appeared to be necessary. He had never heard any complaints that the Government had given money. The only complaint which he had known urged, on the contrary, was, that they had imposed restrictions upon the mode of obtaining the money which rendered the grant inoperative. He believed it was perfectly notorious that in many places there was school accommodation which was not used, and he would suggest that it would be desirable if in some of the poorer of those neighbourhoods the Government would endeavour
 1413
 MR. HENLEY  said, he very much regretted that the subject had been so argued as if a difference was to be made between an English and an Irish question. The Vote must be taken as an exceptional one; but, in reference to the education of the poorer classes, he did not see why a conservatory was brought in. He had heard an hon. Member say that that was desirable in consequence of the potato blight, but he was not aware that the culture of potatoes was carried on in conservatories.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he also must complain of the unsatisfactory position which Ireland occupied in regard to education as compared with other portions of the Empire. It was next to impossible that all parties could agree upon a uniform system of national education; but it was at least earnestly to be hoped that in the course of the next Session of Parliament some general plan would be adopted regulating the mode in which the assistance of the State should be given to all classes of religionists. The principles relating to the subject of education which had been enunciated upon the platform of the British and Foreign School Society by the Duke of Argyll, by the noble Lord the Member for London (Lord J. Russell) and also by the present Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, were alike just, sound and liberal; but why should the Protestants of the sister country alone be denied the benefit of their application? It was the intention of his right hon. Friend the Member for Midhurst (Mr. Walpole), who had given notice of a Motion, but had been compelled by one of the war debates to withdraw it, to bring before the House early next Session the whole question of education in Ireland, and to have the matter fairly and fully discussed.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he must deny that the Bills had anything to do with the question of free trade. On the contrary, the principle involved in them was entirely antagonistic to free trade. As there was no chance of their passing at that late period of the Session, he trusted they would be postponed for the present.
 MR. BASS  said, he did not agree that
 1391
 MR. COBDEN  had always thought that the hon. Member for Rochdale (Mr. Miall), and those who advocated the voluntary principle, objected to votes of money for a system of education in which religion was combined; while, at the same time, they objected to any system of education in which the secular element was separated from religion, taking up thus an immovable position. His hon. Friend the Member for Rochdale appeared now to have lost sight entirely of the religious objection to the grant, and to oppose it because he said it was not calculated to promote education; but the hon. Gentleman did not in any way prove the truth of that allegation. He also stated that the Educational Votes did not in any way benefit the criminal class of the community. Now, the criminal class was the most ignorant and vicious class, but it was begging the question entirely to assert that the existing system of education, unsatisfactory as it was, did not reach that class. As to the statement of his hon. Friend that the schools which were supported by those grants were attended chiefly by the children of small shopkeepers and farmers, who could really afford to pay for the education of their children, he could only say that in all those schools a large number of the children of labourers was to be found. The hon. Member said the parents of the children in our schools were very well able to pay for their education, but if that were the case, then why should he, and those who assumed the name of voluntaries, aid the poor by eleemosynary subscriptions among the richer members of congregations and churches? Voluntaryism, strictly so called, was violated by such aid as well as by Parliamentary grants, and more harm was done by it in pauperising the recipients of such aid, and the rules of political economy were not less infringed by it. But he (Mr. Cobden) confessed that he was not satisfied with the way in which the public money was now voted and applied for education. He saw the difficulty in which the House of Commons was placed by the refusal of the religious voluntaries to receive a share of the grant. They stood aloof, and then complained of it as an injustice; was that fair to Parliament or to themselves? He (Mr. Cobden), with the right hon. Gentleman the Member
 1416 d. d. 1417 1418
 MR. MALINS  said, he would certainly record his vote in favour of the Bill, which he considered of the utmost importance to the country. The only argument which he had heard against the Bill was that it would be useless. If that were so, let it be passed, and then no harm could result from it, as it would remain a dead letter. He could only say that the whole country was watching with the greatest anxiety for the measure to become law.
 MR. SPOONER  said, if he thought that the measure would set free small capital safely he would give it his cordial support, but believing the contrary to be the fact he should oppose it. He was convinced that the Bill would act as a snare and delusion to entrap persons into improvident and dishonest speculations, and that the most disastrous results would be the consequence. He deprecated the practice of those in support of the Bill imputing improper motives to their opponents. He denied that those with whom he was associated in opposition to those Bills were influenced by any but the most honourable and disinterested intentions. He was not opposed to the principle of limited liability, but he was opposed to the mode in which it was to be carried out by those Bills.
 MR. LAING  said, that his intercourse with practical men out of doors convinced him that there was a very strong feeling among such persons that there was a necessity for an amendment in the principle of the English law, which so positively excluded the principle of limited liability in the case of Joint-stock Companies. He thought the Bill proposed would meet all the difficulties which had hitherto been experienced, and would prove of the greatest benefit to the country. What railway had ever been constructed by any private parties?
 1393
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he thought that the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich (Sir J. Pakington) was entitled to the thanks of the House for the excellent measure which he had introduced. He saw no objection to the present Vote, but rather regretted that it was so small.
 MR. BARNES  said, he was reluctantly compelled to oppose the proposed grant, and should move the reduction of the Vote to 263,000 l. 1405 l. 1406
 MR. BARNES  said, he would withdraw his Amendment after the opinions which had been expressed upon it by the Committee.
 MR. CONOLLY  hoped that the appearance of the item of a hothouse in the Vote would not induce the Committee to refuse the people of Ireland the means of obtaining a really valuable education in "common things," the importance of which was now so generally recognised.
 MR. MITCHELL  said, the speech of the noble Lord at the head of the Government would not prevent him from stating his objections to the Bill. He was not opposed to the principle of limited liability properly understood and carried out. But it was a waste of time to entertain the consideration of a measure which he felt persuaded could not pass during the present Session. No one supposed that the Bill would pass through the House of Lords, sent down to them, as it would be, so late in the Session. The observations of the noble Lord were the most improper and uncalled for that he had ever known to fall from a Minister of the Crown. The noble Lord could not say of the commercial class in that House that they ever threw any impediments in the way of legislation. It was the Government of the noble Lord himself that threw the real impediments in the way of the measure now before the House; for, instead of bringing it under discussion at an early period of the Session, as the noble Lord might have done, he wasted the time of the House upon the Scotch Education Bill, which he did not make an attempt to defend in the other House of Parliament, and upon the Tenants' Improvements Compensation Bill, which the noble Lord knew very well could never pass that House. It was not till the 26th of July that he called upon them to enter upon the consideration of the details of the measure, about which there existed the greatest difference of opinion; and then the noble Lord lectured them, and said that unless they allowed their opinions to be "burked" he would sit till September, and he tried to intimidate them by a threat of sitting from day to day, and morning to morning. Let there be a Committee to inquire into the present bankruptcy law, and let a proper measure of limited liability be then brought in, and he would not oppose it. He denied that the present was a free trade measure, because it was a piece of exceptional legislation, and the working man, for whose benefit it was professed to be brought forward, would find it a delusion and a 
 MR. THORNELY  said, it was his intention to vote for the grant, for he thought that with both systems—the Government and the voluntary—education was still much behind what it ought to be. He had been for many years a subscriber to the British and Foreign Schools, which institution, he believed, had done a great deal of good in the country, and also in foreign parts, to which their system of education extended. He had, however, heard with
 1420
 MR. KENNEDY  said, that while expressing his entire satisfaction at the increase of 30 per cent. in the grant of the current year for England, he must complain that the increase for Ireland amounted to only 10 per cent. The ratio of increase for both countries ought to be more equal. 117,000 l. l. l. 1424
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said that he thought many advantages might be obtained by the Bill before them, as also by the Partnership Bill, but they should be carried out in a right form. He did not think it would be possible to give them full consideration between this and the end of the present Session. It would be better therefore to postpone the Bills, and allow opinions to be matured on them before the next Session. He therefore thought it a waste of time to discuss a question which every one knew could not become law in the present Session. These Bills had twenty-six clauses, and he found that there were twenty-eight new clauses besides seventy Amendments to be proposed. He put it to the House whether it was possible, at the present period of the Session, to consider all the matter contained in those clauses and Amendments as they ought to be considered?
 MR. BARROW  eulogised both Churchmen and Dissenters for their voluntary and successful exertions in the spread of education. He believed in the ultimate success of the voluntary system, and he could only regard the present Vote as a return of a portion of the taxes received from all portions of the people for the general education of the people. At the same time, he could not help thinking that the schoolmasters were over educated for their future position. He saw that an acquaintance with the three first books of Euclid was expected from a candidate for a Queen's scholarship upon his admission into the training school for masters; and it was not surprising, that pupils so prepared, and with other qualifications acquired in the training school, should seek higher situations and be unwilling to submit to the drudgery of teaching children of the working classes the rudiments of education. The profound classics conducting our public schools, are not occupied in teaching to the lowest forms the rudiments of Latin grammar. It was to be hoped, therefore, that the Committee of Council would reconsider their system as it related to certificated teachers. A greater proportion of their funds might be
 1408
 MR. W. BROWN  said, he was of opinion that his hon. Friend who had just sat down had been reasoning on the subject upon false premises. He seemed to think that those who were opposed to the Bill were unfavourable to all combinations for the purposes of trade. That was a complete fallacy. He might say, from his own experience in transactions which he had had with France and the United States that, whenever he had come in contact with parties who were established under the principle of limited liability, it had always injured the credit of those parties in his estimation. He was reluctant to part with the advantage the country now possessed, unless he could be assured of some countervailing advantages to be obtained from a new law.
 MR. W. EWART  said, he must admit that we were not in a satisfactory condition with respect to education. We had no system, but the country voted so much per annum to stimulate voluntary effort. He thought his hon. Friend who had last addressed them had shown, not that too much money was voted for education, but that it was not distributed in the best possible manner. He feared that there were many districts, which the Government grant did not reach, in which, in consequence of the poverty of the inhabitants, there was the greatest want of State assistance. He believed that one great
 1407
 MR. KIRK  said, that one effect of the establishment of the national system of education in Ireland had been to supersede the old schoolmasters there, who were generally men of some classical and scientific knowledge, and, by substituting in their place the national schools, to lower the character of education throughout the country. He was glad to find, therefore, that an increased grant was proposed, because increased salaries might tempt men of superior qualifications to undertake the duties of national schoolmasters. Something certainly ought to be done to provide a better kind of education for the middle classes; otherwise there would be no feeders for the colleges, and the consequence would be that the whole youth of Ireland world be shut out from the competitive
 1425
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he did not object to the Vote, but thought that it might in some respects be more satisfactorily applied than appeared from the estimates to be proposed. He especially objected to the erection of a conservatory in connection with one of the agricultural schools, the payment of a lecturer on physical science, and to the item of 1,000 l.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that he would state as briefly as possible, the manner in which the educational Vote of last year had been expended, and how it was proposed to expend that for the present year. The sum required for the present year was 381, 921 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1401 l. l. l. l. l. l. s. d. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1402 l. l. l. l. 1403 s. l. l. 1404
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the term of the Minute had been taken from a Minute of 1853, in which, under the head of capitation grants, certain grants were made to districts where the contributions were not of sufficient amount to meet the rule on which the grants were usually made. It was now proposed to do away with the distinction between rural and urban districts, and a sum of 27,000 l. 1412
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Committee must be aware that it was the duty of the Government to see that the grants should not be extended to the erection of new buildings, which might be sold or mortgaged. Personal bonds had been entered into by the trustees not to sell or mortgage, and they now desired to get rid of their personal liability.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had found that the Bill referred to by the hon. Member had been brought into the other House of Parliament by the President of the Council, and the object of it was to relieve trustees of schools from personal obligations, they having given bonds which affected them personally, with a view to secure school sites. When the second reading was moved he should be able to state more about the measure, but if it was thought to be unjust to trustees of schools, the Government had no desire to press it, but many trustees were desirous that it should pass, in order that they might be relieved from all personal liability.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the Bill in question would come on at a later
 1423
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he could not answer the question at present. Kneller Hall might be applied to several objects, and he was now endeavouring to determine to what purpose it could be devoted with the greatest advantage.
 MR. CAIRNS  said, that he had several Amendments to propose, but he thought that he should best suit the convenience of the Committee by moving that the Chairman should report progress. Before doing so he was anxious to make a few observations in consequence of what had been said by the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) early in the debate. He (Mr. Cairns) had come down to the House in the expectation that they would have gone into Committee at twelve o'clock; they would then have been enabled to dispose of most of the questions which would have arisen on the present Bill, but the time of the House had been occupied in a most unprofitable discussion; and he appealed to the Committee as to whether a great deal of that discussion had not been raised by the noble Lord himself? He had said that the question was of vital importance; that the country was anxious that the present Bill should pass into law; that delay was greatly to be deprecated, and that those who caused delay would have a great deal to answer for in the eyes of the country. He (Mr. Cairns) agreed with those assertions, but he wanted to know how long such opinions had been embraced by the noble Lord? A discussion took place last year on the subject of limited liability, when a great number of Members expressed their opinions on the subject, but not one Member of the Government then got up and said that it was a question of vital importance and ought to be passed into law. When the noble Lord took his place at the head of the Government, what was the course which was taken with reference to what had been termed by the noble Lord an all-pressing and vital question? The right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade said that it was his intention to bring forward a Bill on the subject, and gave a notice to that effect; but that notice remained on the paper month after month, without any Motion being made, and it was not until the night before the Whitsuntide recess that the Bills were laid on the table, without a discussion, for the purpose of being printed. It was not until they had reassembled for several weeks
 1397
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that, having repeatedly had occasion during the Session to trespass on the attention of the House on the subject of education, he would on the present occasion only offer a very few observations. And, first, he must hail with satisfaction the accession produced by that discussion to the number of those who evinced a warm and sincere interest in the great cause of education, which was, beyond all doubt, the most important domestic question of the day, and excited an interest in the public mind second only to the war in which we were unhappily engaged, although unfortunately it did not excite a proportionate degree of interest in that House. While, however,
 1409 l. 1410
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to inquire what was the meaning of the term "voluntary assessment," which he observed was used in the Minute connected with the Supplemental Estimate of 15,000 l.
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, that the public grant was in itself insufficient for the general education of the people, and any portion of it devoted to a limited object was so much abstracted from the general funds to be applied to elementary education. If, therefore, the hon. Member for South Lancashire pressed his Amendment to a division he should vote for it.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, that not to the Government, but to the practice of the House itself, and the many useless discussions which had taken place, must be attributed the delay which had taken place, and which had prevented measures from being passed.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the service on which Major General Chesney was to be employed was not exactly in the organisation of the Turkish Contingent, but a different service, which was not
 1398
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I really do entreat the House not to waste time in discussing whether we should or should not discuss these Bills, but to go at once into Committee and discuss them there, where those who entertain objections to the Bills may state the grounds of their objection, and those who are in favour of them may state the grounds on which they support them. My own opinion is—and no one denies—that these Bills are of the utmost interest and importance. I confess I am quite surprised that Gentlemen who have been the strenuous and successful advocates of the principles of free trade should now turn round and try to defeat these Bills, which are based upon those very principles. I will say in a few words that I consider that this contest lies between the few and the many. It is just one of those instances in which, I won't
 1390 Cries of
 MR. GLADSTONE : I do not intend to raise any question on the principle of the Bill at the present moment, nor to offer a remark upon the singular example it affords of a measure which, on its merits, has met with the unanimous disapproval of the House—which has been disapproved of by every part of the House except the Treasury bench—and which, though so disapproved of has been supposed, through its having passed its second reading in silence, to be a measure which, notwithstanding its badness and the impossibility of justifying its form, it is better to accept than risk the inconvenience which the majority of the House believe would be consequent on its rejection. I think that is a fair statement on the part of hon. Members, who, like myself, are opposed to this measure, but who do not think it their duty to reject it. I was in hopes that the Government would have taken steps to mitigate the evils inseparable from this measure—to mitigate them, for it is impossible to remove them—for I do maintain that, giving pecuniary aid to Turkey by means of a guarantee is full of danger and pregnant with mischief to the whole tone of the objects and policy of the war, and is certain, when the war is concluded, to throw Turkey, for whom
 1439 1440 l l. l. "conjointement et solidairement." 1441 1442 1443 1444
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he was sorry there should be any misapprehension upon this subject. He would greatly regret being the occasion of it. He was not then contending against the policy of the Bill; but the construction of the measure. He certainly intended to have addressed the Speaker, and he came down to the House for that purpose. He, however, found Mr. Fitzroy in the chair at five minutes after twelve o'clock. If it were more convenient to have this explanation given upon a future stage of the Bill, he would offer no obstruction to such an arrangement.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was ready to follow his right hon. Friend. He had all the papers before him, and could answer all the points raised, but as he understood he would best consult the convenience of the House by doing so he proposed to fix the Committee for six o'clock, to be taken after the other orders.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the only Convention there was, was that which had been already laid on the table—that between the Governments of France and England and the Government of Turkey.
 MR. WILKINSON  proposed to omit the words, other than an Insurance Company."
 MR. BOUVERIE  opposed the Amendment, and said that banks were excepted, because our whole legislation with respect
 1446
 MR. HENLEY  thought that the right hon. Getleman had not at all touched the principle which he had been asked to explain. As to a Bank of Issue, no such bank could now be set up at all, and therefore the observation as to that was quite inapplicable. But the right hon. Gentleman had not at all attempted to go into the question why a bank should have more liability than a coppersmith or any other tradesman. As to Insurance Companies, it was said that they evaded the law by an agreement; but he wanted to know why they should be driven to a special contract to evade the law? If they were to have free-trade, there ought to be no exceptions and no restrictions. If the principle was good in itself, why should it not be good for a bank?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  observed, that there was a distinction between banks and the Joint-stock Companies contemplated by this Bill. A Joint-stock Company was an association of individuals who collected together their capital to be employed in some profitable undertaking. The functions of a bank were altogether different. A bank was a being in whose custody we deposited our money for safe keeping, and its duty partook of the nature of a trust. The fundamental function of a bank, therefore, was the safe custody of other people's money; but the fundamental function of these associations was the active employment of their own money. This constituted a distinction in the very nature of the two things. It was quite clear that when persons deposited their money in a bank for safe keeping, they were entitled to a greater amount of security from the persons constituting that bank than a mere creditor was against his debtor in matters of ordinary trade. In other countries where limited liability was adopted as a general principle, banks were excepted; and, therefore, it was thought right to except them as well as Insurance Companies from the operation of this measure.
 MR. HENLEY  did not see why banks, because they were used for deposit, should be excluded from the Act. If a foreign merchant sent over 100,000 l.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : That was agency.
 MR. HENLEY : Yes; but he supposed that there might be Joint-stock agencies as well as Joint-stock Banks, and such agencies might be carried on under this Bill.
 MR. CARDWELL  complained that a new principle had been introduced by the noble Lord, different from that which was affirmed the preceding day. Yesterday they were told that they had nothing to do but to trust to the principle of  caveat creditor; caveat creditor.
 MR. COWAN  thought it extremely unwise at the end of a Session that a measure of this description should be persevered in, and which, if passed, was not likely to command the confidence of the country. He hoped the Government would withdraw this and the Partnership Amendment Bill, to which he had a still greater objection.
 MR. BRAMLEY-MOORE  said, that under this Bill for limited liability, a man might be a bankrupt in one street, and a wealthy merchant prince round the corner in another concern, and that this was irreconcilable with sound morality. It was equally important to protect the public as well as shareholders in Companies, and he would call the especial attention of the right hon.
 1448 Palmer's Almanack:
 VISCOUNT GODERICH : What year was that?
 MR. BRAMLEY-MOORE : The year 1841.
 MR. WILKINSON : Were these limited liability partnerships?
 MR. BRAMLEY-MOORE : The return contained partnerships of all kinds. 1449
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he did not understand the force of the statement of the hon. Gentleman, because it happened that he knew a country where the principle of limited liability was not acted upon, but where losses to the extent of not less than 50,000,000 l.
 MR. LOWE  supported the Amendment. No answer had been given to the question why Insurance Offices should not come within the operation of this Act. The principle of the Act was, that the people were the best judges of what was good for themselves; and if Assurance Offices choose to come and pay up 20 per cent of their capital, why should they be precluded from doing so, and partaking of the benefits of the Bill? He objected to any exceptions from the general law.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the exclusion of Insurance Companies from the Bill showed the distrust of the Government in the operation of their own principle.
 MR. M'CANN  said, it had been laid down by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Wick (Mr. Laing), on a former occasion, that a man was the best judge of the disposal of his own money. If that were so, he did not see why Parliament should interfere against hells and gambling houses.
 MR. GLYN  said, that Insurance Companies had transactions in reference to contingent remainders, which extended over a very lengthened period, and were for the benefit of persons not even alive at the time; and he would ask, ought not such parties to have some special securites thrown around them to protect them from loss? It was a question whether there ought not to be liability to the greatest extent, instead of limited liability, in Insurance Companies. He thought that Insurance Companies should not be included in the act.
 MR. LLOYD DAVIES : The question was whether, if they omitted Insurance Companies, those Companies could not still go on on their present system. He thought they should be allowed to come under the Act if they thought proper to do so.
 MR. ARCHIBALD HASTIE  said that the people of America, where the law of limited liability existed, were anxious to get rid of it. In Massachusetts it was the law that no bank should be established without first raising one-half of its capital; and the practice was for the parties to borrow the money and exhibit it to the inspector, who reported accordingly. Immediately afterwards the money was returned to the lender, and the bank was started without any money at all.
 MR. SPOONER  said, that all Insurance Companies enjoyed by their deed limited liability; and he wished to know whether, if they were brought under this Act, they
 1451
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that Insurance Companies did not obtain limited liability by their deed. It must be clearly understood that the principle of limited liability was not new to the English law. Liability only arose from the circumstance that every partner was considered to be the general agent of his partners; and if it were possible to limit that general agency in such a manner as to make every person with whom they dealt aware of it, there would be no general liability. Insurance Companies had the opportunity of doing that, for all their contracts being in writing, they had the option of introducing a provision expressly engaging for limited liability. The opportunity of continuing that practice would still remain to them, even if they came under the provisions of this Act. The provisions of this Act would not in the smallest degree supersede the general principles of the law.
 MR. MONTAGU CHAMBERS  re-marked that the special clause in policies spoken of by the Solicitor-General had come into use in this way. A great Company started in Liverpool and in the City, called, he thought, the Sea Insurance Company, in which there were many shareholders who were in business. Some time after it was discovered that the Company was insolvent to the extent of 200,000 l. l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  supported the Amendment, and considered that this proposed limitation of capital to the amount of 20,000 l., l., l.,
 MR.W. EWART  remarked that one great argument which had been urged in favour of the Bill was, that it would afford facilities to small capitalists for the employment of their money, but "small" and "large" were relative terms. To some, 20,000 l. l., l.
 MR. WILKINSON  said, the effect of the limitation in the Bill would be to deprive the labouring classes of that power of investing their small savings which they ought to enjoy, and which would encourage among them habits of economy, foresight, and frugality.
 MR. ARCHIBALD HASTIE  said, the House having decided that the Bill should go into Committee, he felt it his duty to make it as efficient as possible. The limit proposed by the Government was quite inconsistent with free trade, and in its present shape the Bill would be a delusion upon the labouring classes.
 MR. BOUVERIE  objected to the Amendment proposed by the noble Lord,
 1453 l., l. l., l.
 MR. MITCHELL  said, the opponents of the Bill were on the previous day called by the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) monopolists. Why should the House establish monoplists having a capital of 10,000 l
 MR. HENLEY  thought the argument of the right hon. Gentleman was fatal to any particular limit, nor did lie see why any limit should be imposed. They were about to enter upon a new system by which persons of small means were to be enabled to do good for themselves; why then stop half way and baulk your own object? It would be much better to leave the parties to take care of themselves, to look at the nature of the undertaking, and to consider the means they possessed to employ upon it, than to have any limit at all.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  was of opinion that the Amendment would be inoperative, because it was impossible to establish the principle of limited liability without a registration of the shareholders, which would show the amount of their shares and of their liabilities. The very object of the Bill was to define each man's liability, and this must necessarily state the aggregate amount of the capital to be invested. If, therefore, the Amendment were to be adopted, it would run counter to the whole principle of the Bill. He would entreat his noble Friend not to press his Amendment.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that, without doubt, there must be some specification of the shares; but nothing was easier than to deal with them. But the Committee had a
 1454 l. l., l. l. 1455
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that nothing was so admirable as the zeal of a new convert, and he was sure his noble Friend who proposed the Amendment must be nearly in a state of ecstasy at having received the support of one of the most zealous advocates of unlimited liability. But with all deference, he thought there were reasons, without at all involving the general principles upon which the Government had recommended this Bill, why they might reject the particular proposal which had been made by his noble Friend. He had already contended that this Bill was founded on the principle of free trade, and he still maintained that doctrine; but it was also founded upon another principle. It was proposed to give to those associations which it was intended to create by this Bill that character which the law now gave to Joint-stock Companies. They would be invested with a corporate character, and have the privilege of suing and of being sued. They would have a corporate seal, and would not be simply an aggregation of individuals, but would possess legal privileges, and be distinguished by legal
conditions. If, then, there were to be given to a number of individuals this corporate character and those legal privileges, there should at least be some monetary evidence of their existence; and he thought that a capital of 10,000 l., bonâ fide l., 1456 l., l., s. l., l. l. l. l.
 MR. LOWE  was anxious to call to the attention of the Committee that that which the noble Lord and the Solicitor General termed an absurdity already existed, and that a Company with 1 s. d. l. 1457 bonâ fide
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that they had had, on very high authority, a definition of respectability, which consisted, it was said, in keeping a gig, and the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) had given them a definition of "reality," which was l0.000 l.
 VISCOUNT GODERICH  said he should press his Amendment to a division. His proposition had received the support, not of one class, as the noble Lord at the head of the Government implied, but of the whole Committee.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  had found it impossible to provide machinery for carrying out the Bill without fixing the capital at a considerable amount.
 MR. HENLEY  thought the objection of the hon. and learned Gentleman was unfair to the noble Lord. The noble Lord had raised a great question of principle, and if his Amendment were adopted it would be easy to provide suitable machinery.
 MR. MONTAGU CHAMBERS  said, if the Bill passed in its present form it would be a fiction and a delusion, and he should vote for the Amendment.
 MR. SPOONER  disclaimed the imputation of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston), that he was a convert. He was no convert, but was as much opposed to the Bill as ever. On the ground of consistency, however, he felt bound to support the Amendment.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that he would not trouble the Committee to do so; and the first part of Lord Goderich's Amendment was agreed to.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that although he had agreed to the omission of the words "down to and including 20,000 l., l., l.
 VISCOUNT GODERICH  said, that he would take the sense of the Committee upon this question, and moved the omission of the words, "divided into shares of a nominal value of not less than 25 l.
 MR. CARDWELL  said that, if the Amendment of the noble Lord were carried, there would be no definition as to the value of the shares inserted in the Bill. He thought that the conclusion was most salutary which had been come to, that the amount of capital should be left to the discretion of the Companies; but he thought that, in order to prevent fraud, it would be requisite to limit the amount of the shares, though he thought 25 l.
 LORD SEYMOUR  observed, that the noble Lord was not present when he made the speech of which he complained, and he had not read through the whole of the remarks he made on the occasion, nor replied to the only point he (Lord Seymour) had advanced in reference to the noble Lord. He had never imputed to the noble Lord selfish considerations or a desire to benefit his own property at the expense of the country. That was out of the question. What be bad intended to convey was, that the noble Lord, being a landed proprietor, felt with the general body of landed proprietors, and that the feeling if acted upon was disadvantageous to the tax-payers of the country generally. He was glad the noble Lord had brought this subject before the House, because there was one point connected with it to which he wished to refer. The right hon. Member for the University of Oxford, speaking on the subject on the 2nd of March, 1854, when he was Chancellor of the Exchequer, said that this was a great question, in which not hundreds of thousands only, but millions of the public money were involved; and that the question as to the scale ought therefore to be decided, not by the Treasury, but by the House. But had the House decided the question? It had never had the opportunity of doing so; and what he contended was, that that opportunity ought to be afforded. This statement was made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the 2nd of March, and so far from the question having been submitted to the House, the Treasury Minute was issued in July, ordering that Ayrshire and Dumfriesshire should be drawn upon the enlarged scale, and that until a final decision was come
 1463
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The understanding of Her Majesty's Government is, that the guarantee of England, as well as the guarantee of France, applies to the entire loan. I apprehend that the nature of the obligation contracted must be perfectly clear to any one who reads the Convention. The right hon. Gentleman raises a subordinate question as to the proper mode of translating the word  "solidairement." "solidairement." "conjointement et solidairement " 1465 "solidairement" "in solido," "solidairement" 1466 Moniteur l. Moniteur 1467 l. l., l. 1468 l. Geo. l. l. l. l., l., l., l. 1469 f. f. f., 1470 l. l. l. l. l. l. l, l. l., l. 1471 l. l. l. l. l., 1472 1473 ultimaratio 1474
 MR. GLADSTONE : My right hon. Friend has covered a very wide field in the course of his remarks, and it is no action of mine if we are now involved in a discussion of a very large and general nature upon the features of this Bill. The object of my remarks this morning was not to raise at large the principle of this Bill, or to enter into any comparison between the policy of the measure and that of former measures of the sort. My argument was confined entirely to the terms, tenour, and construction of the treaty, and the effect of those terms upon the position of the relative parties to it. My right hon. Friend has entered at great length into a discussion of the Sardinian and Greek loans, and into a history of the proceedings which led to the present treaty; he has gone into a number of details which would not have been out of place when he first introduced this Bill; but when he comes to my argument as to the terms of the Convention, he passes that over in a few words, which show that he is entirely in the dark as to its purport. If I have not made myself more clear to the rest of the House than, as it seems, I have to my right hon. Friend, I must certainly express my regret that I should have so far wasted its time, for he appears to think that certain light, trivial, and even jocose topics are the only ones which arise out of those observations. He speaks of the Greek guarantee as having been an arrangement utterly wasteful of the public money, because that loan was raised upon terms much worse than the credit of any one of the three Powers who raised it. That is a very small question, and, indeed, I must complain that my right hon. Friend seems altogether to have taken a very small view of this subject, and seems to think that the only question worth considering was how we could have saved a few pounds in raising the loan. To my mind, the financial questions are utterly trivial and unimportant as compared with the political questions involved in this matter, and I have not the slightest ob-
 1475
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Both the French and the Russian Five per Cents, were at 101.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Well, I do not pretend to be completely informed as to the financial history of that operation, and I willingly concede to my right hon. Friend the whole force of his argument on that point. He has spoken, however, of joint guarantees in a manner which shows that he looks upon them as matters of so simple and every-day a character that it really matters very little whether they are entered into or not; and as I, on the contrary, am filled with alarm at this arrangement, and as I trust that as it is the first so it will be the last of the sort to which this House will, under any circumstances and on any consideration, give its assent, I must take the liberty of pressing on my right hon. Friend the real danger of these guarantees, as to which he seems at present altogether in the dark. My right hon. Friend says that all we have to apprehend from an arrangement of this sort is that, if the worst comes to the worst, it becomes a payment instead of a guarantee. But that shows that he is entirely at the threshold of this subject. It is not the worst of a guarantee that if Turkey does not pay we shall have to pay for her—I had almost said that that is the best of it. The worst of this guarantee is, that all the guaranteeing Powers acquire a political hold upon Turkey, and if it were possible to put so dangerous a proposition into one form more dangerous than another, my right hon Friend has succeeded in discovering exactly which is the most dangerous, because he infinitely aggravates its perils by consenting to accept the assignment of special securities for repayment. My right hon. Friend, taking advantage of my ignorance of the legal part of this question, and quoting my language about "distraining upon Turkey," which of course I used merely for the purpose of illustration, is kind enough then to tell us that it is not in the clauses of an Act of Parliament to give one nation rights over another. Certainly, however we may be in the dark in these mat-
 1476 l. l. l. 1477 1478
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The obligation of the French Government is undertaken by the law which I read to the House a short time ago.
 MR. GLADSTONE : That law has not been laid upon the table of this House, as I certainly think it ought to have been. Nevertheless I have heard the terms of it, and they are these,—that the Emperor is enabled by this law to guarantee conjointly—that is, according to the condition of the Convention—but the Convention contains nothing that makes the French Government liable for the issue of the money. Its terms point out no executory machinery for the enforcement of his rights by the creditor. Your Act of Parliament, however, offers such facilities in the case of England, although there is no corresponding provision in regard to France. Therefore there is a complete machinery affecting England, and compelling the people of this country to bear the whole of this guarantee; while in the case of France there is no such stipulation, although there is, indeed, an agreement between France and you (which is a totally different matter) binding her to send the money to the Bank of England. You must distinguish the mutual relations between the two Govern-
 1479 1480 ultima ratio ultima ratio 1481 1482
 MR. GLADSTONE : I distinctly said, that that had nothing to do With my argument.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, his right hon. and learned Friend was quite correct in his translation of the French words  conjointement et solidairement. conjointement et solidairement" 1490
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that on this question, as well as on the question adverted to by the Solicitor General, it was necessary for the Committee to observe the difference between the positions of the Turkish Government and the guaranteeing Governments. We did not guarantee the sinking-fund, and therefore that was an arrangement between the bondholder and the Turkish Government at the time the loan was contracted.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER 
 1493 l.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  did not see how it was possible for the House to legislate as to a sinking fund which was to be provided by the Turkish Government and paid into the Bank of England, for it was a matter with which that House had no concern. Our obligation ended with guarantee of the interest. If we guaranteed the sinking fund, he quite admitted that we ought to legislate as to the sinking fund. If the Turkish Government failed to pay the interest, he presumed they would not provide the sinking fund; but this country would not have to provide any charge in that respect.
 MR GLADSTONE  said, that on consideration, he decidedly agreed with the right hon. Gentleman opposite. His first feeling was one of satisfaction that there was no guarantee of the sinking fund which appeared to him an extension of what he regarded as an inexpedient and mischievous principle; but when he looked further he found that guaranteeing the sinking fund was really a contraction of the mischief. They were going to guarantee interest at 4 per cent on 5,000,000 l., l., 1494
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he believed that there would be no difficulty in the arrangement as to the terms on which the sinking fund was to be appropriated by the Turkish Government; but it was a matter, in the first instance, between the Turkish Government and the bondholders.
 MR. GLADSTONE  wished to repeat the point which presented itself to his mind. The better way to make it clear would be to premise a total default by Turkey to pay; and under that supposed state of things the question was, which was most for the interest and advantage of the guaranteeing Powers, that they should go on paying 4 per cent for ever, or have the means of extinguishing the debt by a sinking fund. It was quite plain that it would be for our interest to have the control of the sinking fund.
 MR. GLADSTONE  observed, that the Committee had given him an ample opportunity of expressing his feelings on this question, and he did not propose to abuse their patience by reopening the discussion. The noble Lord, however, had observed that, perhaps, if he had still continued Chancellor of the Exchequer, he should have been disposed to take a more lenient and favourable view of this matter. He appealed confidently to his colleagues whether the doctrines he held upon guarantees had undergone any change? and, with respect to the present measure, while he was not content with the arrangement, he submitted cheerfully to the opinion expressed by the House, although it must be remarked that not a single Member had given his approval to the terms of this arrangement upon the merits, or to the mode in which it had been brought forward by Her Majesty's
 1512
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, with respect to the case referred to that the grand difference was this, that it was Turkish money in the one case and English money in the other.
 MR. GLADSTONE  deplored the unhappy condition of the hon. and learned Gentleman, who had been sitting in the House all the evening and wasting his precious time. The hon. and learned Gentleman appeared to impute to the right hon. Member for Manchester a de-
 1513
 LORD ELCHO  said, that though he was unwilling in any way to interrupt the course of public business, he wished to refer shortly to a matter of a private nature, which arose out of a speech made the other night by the noble Lord the Member for Totness (Lord Seymour). He was not in the House the other night when the noble Lord made a speech on the Ordnance survey of Scotland, but when he returned to the House, he was told by an hon. Member that he ought to have been present, as the speech of the noble Lord was at least not complimentary to him. Although he spoke on that occasion, he could not reply to the noble Lord's speech, as he was not aware what he had said; but he trusted the House would indulge him on this occasion, as it was a matter which affected his personal character. What the noble Lord the Member for Totness (Lord Seymour) was reported to have said on that occasion was this:—
 "Nothing could be more absurd, or, indeed, more laughable, than the ground on which Lord Elcho had justified the twenty-five-inch scale. The noble Lord was, as they all knew, a large landed proprietor; and he had remarked with admirable  naivete, 1462
 LORD ELCHO  begged to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, if the intention of instituting a new Order of Merit for distinguished services in the field, which was publicly announced by the Duke of Newcastle in the month of December, had been abandoned, and if not, what was the cause of the delay, and when it was probable that it would be instituted and ready for distribution?
 LORD LOVAINE  thought the hon. Member was mistaken. The money was indeed to be raised in the name of Turkey, hut this country took the guardianship of it, and issued it from time to time to Turkey.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I think the Committee will consider that what has occurred to-night has justified us in not proceeding in this matter with that precipitation which the noble Lord in his impassioned harangue conveniently wished us to adopt. In consequence of what has taken place to-night, my right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole) has succeeded in introducing into the Bill an expression which gives it quite a new character. He has succeeded in giving to the Convention an interpretation which it did not bear at six o'clock in the opinion of Her Majesty's Government—an opinion not carelessly given, but an opinion which we have been told to-night by a Cabinet Minister, was only accepted after deliberation, and of course the deliberation of Cabinet Ministers is a Cabinet Council. There appears to have been a Cabinet Council respecting the interpretation of a most important French epithet, and it seems that the Cabinet had decided upon an interpretation of that epithet which is quite contrary to the sense which it bears. What then are we to think of the interpreters of the Foreign Office? At six o'clock, the word " solidairement 1496 solidairement 1497 l. l. l., l. l. l. 1498 1499 1500 1501 1502 1503
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  was most ready to admit that no distinction ought to be made between the two branches of the service. The army warrant was not yet finally arranged, and therefore he could not say exactly what its terms might he; but the Board had every wish to give the highest pensions in their power to the widows of officers dying on service. With regard to the case of the widow of Admiral Boxer, it was true that, under the regulations, she would have only the ordinary pension of an admiral's widow; but there were other sources from which that pension could be increased, and he was happy to state that Her Majesty had been graciously pleased to take her claims into consideration, and acknowledge them in a manner which would certainly be satisfactory to the country.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he did not imagine, when his right hon. Friend rose, that he was about to favour the Committee with a constitutional lecture, but thought that he intended to supply a deficiency in the discussions which had taken place upon the Bill. He alluded to the circumstance that no independent Member had spoken who had a word to say in favour of the terms of the proposition of the Government. He agreed with his right hon. Friend in desiring the stability of the Government, but he was not prepared to purchase that stability by voting for subsidies which he believed to be in themselves mischievous and certain to be followed by mischievous consequences. If the House admitted upon this occasion the argument of the effect the rejection of this Bill would produce in France, St. Petersburg, and Constantinople, were they to be precluded from expressing an opinion hereafter, when the question might be one of 20,000,000 l. l., "We have suffered ourselves to be deceived by names and sounds—the balance of power, the
 1506 "It seemed hard that the ultimate object in question—the security of the Germanic Empire and of the German princes themselves—could only be obtained by payments and promises to those very German princes. Hard as it seemed, however, no more than fifty-four Members of Parliament were found to vote against it."
 MR LABOUCHERE  said, that although the right hon. Gentleman had at the commencement of his speech said that he would not condescend to vindicate or justify the vote which he gave on Friday night, he could not help thinking that the House would not have heard the lengthy address with which he had favoured it had he not been anxious to remove the objections which had been urged against it by some in whose good opinion he was desirous to stand well. The greater part of his speech had, however, been occupied in combating objections which no reasonable man would urge. He talked as though hon. Gentlemen sitting on the ministerial side of the House had questioned the right, nay the bounden duty of the House, to scrutinise and examine any Convention into which the Crown might enter with another Power. The right hon. Gentleman would hear from him (Mr. Labouchere) no such unworthy and unconstitutional doctrine. It was one of the most solemn duties of the House, if need were, to oppose the Crown in acts which involved the imposition of burdens upon the people; and in so doing, so far from being disloyal, they were giving the truest support to the Crown, while they took care that their constitutional right was not invaded. But in exercising this right the House was surely bound to exercise it with judgment and caution, and with a due regard to consequences. He might be wrong, but he confessed he was appalled at the hazard which Gentlemen who voted against the Resolution last Friday evening were prepared to run for the sake of avoiding contingent and possible dangers—especially was he surprised at the conduct of those who had been all along urging upon the Government the vigorous prosecution of the war. The op-
 1504 1505
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that he did not think there was the slightest difficulty with regard to the meaning of the Convention. He would no go into the
 1483
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : However that might be, the fact was, that if a creditor was act paid he might go against France as well as against England; and if he was a French creditor, which he might well be, he was entitled to go against the French Government, and was not compelled to come over here in order to seek his remedy from the English Government; for the liability was the same as against both It might be more convenient for the creditor who did not get his money at the
 1484
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, it struck him that there had been a great deal of misrepresentation throughout the whole of the debate. In the first place, the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. J. L, Ricardo) had spoken of the whole of the interest on the loan having to be paid by the tax-payers of England on account of Turkey's failing to pay the interest, and yet he had admitted that a house in the City of London was ready to have lent 2,000,000 l. 1495
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  also inquired whether there was any power for the reduction of the interest of 4 per cent, for the probability was that the stock would bear some proportion to the English funds, which would be considerably above par at 4 per cent?
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  thought that the creditor would well understand the security on which he gave his money; but he must say that he thought no explanation was given as to the relative positions of France and England with regard to the guarantee. The present debate showed that there was a great field for diplomacy in the guarantee as it stood, and all the difficulty would have been avoided if a separate guarantee had been substituted for a joint one. He admitted that the money would be raised on easier terms by the joint guarantee, because the credit of England was the highest, and was that which ruled the market. This was shown by the actual price of the Greek Loan, which was a separate guarantee. The price of the Greek stock guaranteed by England was 107; that guaranteed by France was 98; and that by Russia was 87; which made an average price of 97. He thought that England would bear the whole burden of this arrangement, and
 1491 l. 1492 l. l. l.,
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  wished to know if there was any correspondence with respect to the distribution of the money in Turkey. He understood that there was a supplementary Convention.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the Sultan stipulated to remit the money for the interest to the Bank of England, and on failure of that the Minister of the day was to issue the money from the Consolidated Fund. There was also a stipulation that the sinking fund was to be paid into the Bank of England, and he thought it would be inconvenient that there was no stipulation as to how that sinking fund was to be appropriated. There should be some authority on the part of the Government to deal with that sinking fund, but it appeared to him that they had no such authority at all.
 MR. HENLEY  thought that if the sinking fund were of any value at all, the joint Governments of England and France ought to have the power to apply it to the reduction of the debt, for otherwise the stipulations with Turkey were only that she should pay the sinking fund into the Bank of England; and there was nothing to prevent her from drawing it out for other purposes, or from letting it lie there.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, the survey for Scotland had been postponed for upwards of sixty years, and that that country ought to have a scale at least as good as that which had been given to Ireland. He trusted the survey would be continued on the present scale until Parliament had finally decided what scale should be adopted, when it could be reduced to that scale.
 MR. MALINS  considered the words proposed to be introduced most objectionable. Turkey desired to borrow, and England and France were to guarantee. Did the right hon. Gentleman mean to suggest that England and France were going to rob Turkey? The transaction was so simple that it required all the ingenuity of the right hon. Gentleman to mystify it.
 MR. MALINS  adhered to his assertion that the Amendment of the right hon. Member for Manchester suggested that the Executive Government were not to be trusted with the transmission of money paid into the Bank of England for the use of Turkey. Having listened to several remarkable speeches from the right hon. Member for Oxford University, he was surprised that that right hon. Member should charge him with having wasted his time.
 MR. WALPOLE : Before the Chancellor of the Exchequer commences his reply to the observations of the right hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone), I wish to put a question to him. I perceive that in the original Convention the word  "séparément " 1464 "Whereas a Convention has been signed between Her Majesty, His Majesty the Emperor of the Frenhch, and His Imperial Majesty the Sultan, in which it was agreed as follows:"
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that whatever the hon. Gentleman might think of the part he had taken in the discussion of this question, his object certainly was not in the least to stop the vigorous prosecution of the war. What he objected to was the way in which the Convention proposed to take securities for the repayment of the loan, which might lead to unpleasant complications. That was simply and solely the ground of his opposition to the present measure, and he desired he might not be included among those who wished to stop the war. No such thought ever entered his head, and he repeated what he had before said—that everything the Government might require for the proper and vigorous prosecution of the war he would freely give. Still, as there was a Convention in the present case, he should like the Solicitor General to satisfy the House that they were passing the present Bill in the way they ought. He had already called the attention of the Committee to the omission of the words "separately" or "severally" in the first article of the Convention, as inserted in the Bill. He had since looked into the dictionary of the Academic, and it was quite clear that the meaning of the words  conjointement et solidairement 1489 "Her Majesty the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland undertake to recommend to Her Parliament to enable her to guarantee, conjointly with His Majesty the Emperor of the French; and His Majesty the Emperor of the French engages, subject to the ratification of the Legislative Body of France, to guarantee, conjointly with Her Britannic Majesty, the interest of a loan of 5,000,000 l.
 MR. T. BARING : The money was money for Turkey; but it was also money to be used by Turkey under the special control of Commissioners to be appointed for that purpose. And if that were the case, what was the difficulty in having a return? We had control over the money until it was expended in Turkey, and it was only fair that this House should require some return as to how the money was to be spent.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  then proposed his Amendment in a form requiring an account to be laid before Parliament of the sums transmitted to the Sublime Porte on account of the capital of the Loan.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that as to this being Turkish money that was a mere phrase. The money was to be paid into the Bank of England, and the Turkish Government would not have the power of touching one shilling of it there. He wanted to know how much of the loan might be transmitted by the Government to Turkey?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  complained of the disadvantage under which the House laboured in discussing this question, in consequence of the Government not having placed before it the whole of the correspondence which had passed between England and Turkey and England and France in reference to this Convention. That inconvenience had been made manifest that evening, for the Chancellor of the Exchequer had referred to some communication that had been made by the Sultan of Turkey to Lord Stratford de Redcliffe, and a supplementary agreement between the Governments of England and France had also been referred to. The value of such references could not be ascertained until the documents were before them, and he did not think the withholding of them was consistent with the statement of the Government that they really wished Parliament to understand clearly the nature of the obligations which the various Powers were about to undertake. If there had been any difficulty with the French Government, and any delay in consequence, the discretion of Ministers being fettered, whose fault was it? What right had the Government to assume the consent of Parliament to a matter which referred to the taxation of the people? He contended that it was a principle beyond dispute that no Minister of the Crown could enter into a treaty with any foreign Power which entailed the expenditure of the public money except subject to the consent of Parliament; and that was a more valuable principle to stand by than even the integrity and independence of the Ottoman Empire, to which he preferred the independence and privileges of the British Parliament. No such engagement ought to have been completed and promulgated to the world without its having first obtained the assent of the British Parliament, for the Executive of this country had no constitutional right to place the Parliament of England under restrictions, and, above all, to deprive it of its discretion in matters affecting the taxation of the people. There was no constitutional writer who had not laid it down as most irregular and improper for a Minister to prejudice the opinions of Parliament in the matter of levying the people's money. To that privilege he would adhere; and he asserted that, if there had been any difficulty in raising the money,
 1485 l. 1486 "This war should end in a recreant and dishonourable peace, that peace will never be the work of my noble Friend (Lord Palmerston) or of Lord Palmerston's Government; but it will be the act of those factions who clandestinely combined the other night to break our engagement with France on the subject of the Turkish loan—I mean the Peace party, the Peelites, the more unscrupulous portion of the Opposition, and some few unreflecting Liberals who formed an ambuscade last Friday night to surprise the Government on the question of the Turkish loan." "I therefore denounce the conduct of those men and their want of patriotism, as deserving of the severest censure and condemnation from all persons and all parties, who hare the interest and honour of their country at heart." 1487 l. l.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  suggested that some guarantee should be afforded that the money now to be advanced should be applied to the purpose for which it was intended, and was understood to instance a case in which this had been done.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  meant the correspondence—the original request of the Sultan for a loan, and the subsequent correspondence on the subject.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  asked whether there would be any objection to place on the table the correspondence which had taken place between the Government and the Governments of Turkey and France, with respect to this Convention?
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  asked the First Lord of the Treasury whether, having regard to the gallant conduct of Irish soldiers in the Crimea, Her Majesty's Government will recommend that a Royal Regiment of Queen's Irish Guards shall be embodied, with privileges similar to those enjoyed by the English and Scotch regiments of Grenadier, Coldstream, and Fusilier Guards?
 MR. W. EWART  inquired of the Clerk of the Ordnance whether satisfactory progress continued to be made in mechanical and other inventions laid before the Select Committee of the Board of Ordnance, with a view to shortening the duration of the war.
 MR. MONSELL  replied that 974 projects of inventions in all had been laid before the Committee during the last twelve months, of which 696 had been rejected, and there still remained for trial 123. The Select Committee was divided into five sub-Committees, on which many men of scientific eminence were engaged.
 1459
 MR. TITE  said, that he had been so pointedly alluded to by the hon. Gentleman that he felt bound to say a few words. He did not see what the present question had to do with administrative reform, or what the right hon. Gentleman meant unless, inferentially, to blame him for the vote he had given to the Government on a previous night. In explanation of his vote, he might say that he was not only desirous
 1445
 MR. WILKINSON  said, that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) had put before the House every possible alternative to which this guarantee might lead; and although he might agree with him that the arrangement of the terms might have
 1488 l.
 MR. WILKINSON  said, that Turkey was about to raise a loan, and this country had nothing to do with it until it should be called on to pay the interest.
 SIR GEORGE TYLER  asked the First Lord of the Admiralty, what steps the Admiralty has taken to extend to the widows of officers of the Royal Navy the boon which Her Majesty has lately conferred upon the widows of officers of the army, by extending the pension warrant, so as to create a special scale of pensions for the widows of officers who may die from illness contracted in the field. Also, whether it is true that the widow of the late Admiral Boxer has only been granted the ordinary pension for an admiral's widow, namely, 120 l.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  understood that there was to be an arrangement with Turkey upon the matter.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I agree with the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Disraeli) that those Gentlemen who take exception to what is supposed to have been said by my right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Colonies (Sir W. Molesworth) at his election to-day might as well have deferred their remarks until my right hon. Friend was here to answer for himself, especially as there is no man more capable than he is of defending himself in his place against anything which is laid to his charge. I would, however, venture to suggest to the right hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson), who seems to take so much objection to what he calls violence of expression in speeches out of this House at hustings, that, after
 1507 1508 1509 1510 1511
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that until the ratification should be sent to Constantinople nothing could be done in pursuance of the Convention; but that instructions had been sent to Lord Stratford with a view to the mode in which the money should be applied.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that the only map which it was intended to publish was on the one inch scale, and he could assure the hon. Gentleman that there should be no unnecessary delay in its publication.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I can inform my hon. and learned Friend, that the matter to which his question relates, has been considered by Her Majesty's Government. Undoubtedly, we should be very desirous of making any arrangement which would be gratifying to the Irish, to whose services upon all occasions, more especially military—but that I need hardly say, because there never has been any difference of opinion on that point whenever and wherever they have been employed—but to whose services both by sea and land the Crown and country owes so much. But with respect to the particular
 1460
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he would consider about that also.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, it was the intention of Government, as soon as possible, to issue the regulations of the New Order. The only cause of the delay that had taken place had been, that when they came to make detailed arrangements as to the practical test to he applied to the claims of private soldiers, and other matters of this kind, there had been found more difficulties in making satisfactory arrangements than had been anticipated; but he hoped that very soon those difficulties would be overcome.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Of course the correspondence between Turkey and this country could be produced, but not the correspondence between Turkey and France. He would communicate with his noble Friend the Foreign Secretary, and learn if the former could be produced.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he really was not prepared for the speech of the right hon. Gentleman. He certainly understood that there was to be no discussion upon this stage of the Bill. He did not, however, mean to say that he had any right to complain of the course taken by the right hon. Gentleman. But from what had passed the other night between the right hon. Gentleman and his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he (Viscount Palmerston) expected that the right hon. Gentleman would not have raised these objections in Committee on the Bill. The Government had appointed other business for discussion that night, and a great many Gentlemen had come down to the House under that impression. He would, therefore, under such circumstances, ask the Chairman to Report progress.
 MR. BRAMLEY-MOORE  said, he would offer no objection if the right hon. Gentleman would insert a clause that the whole amount of the shares should be paid up.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that brewers did not enter into any engagement with the Excise, and so far as they were concerned the question was inapplicable. As regarded maltsters, if they paid the duty, they were not called upon to enter into any bond. They were, therefore, free from any obligation to the Department of Inland Revenue if the duty were paid when it became due; but if they took advantage of the credit that was allowed for some months, they would have to enter into a bond to the Department of Inland Revenue. That course was necessary to secure the payment of the duty, and it was not consistent with the security of the revenue to wait until the danger should accrue, according to the suggestion of his hon. Friend.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he hoped that the new Order of Merit would include those officers who had distinguished themselves in the Peninsular war, and who had been excluded from the Order of the Bath. Although it was the fashion to sneer at Peninsular officers, there were many of them now who had shed their blood in the service of their country who had received no such decoration as the Order of the Bath. There was the present Military Secretary at the War Office, Major General Yorke, who had received the war medal for the Peninsula with ten clasps, and the Waterloo medal, and had served in America and at the Cape; there was the officer at the head of the Quartermaster General's Department, General Freeth, who had received the Peninsular war medal and two clasps; there was General Lovell, a most distinguished cavalry officer, who had received the Peninsular war medal with eleven clasps; and Colonel Derinzy, who had received the war medal with nine clasps, and the gold medal for Toulouse; none of these had received the decoration of the Bath. Many of the best Peninsular officers had been thus passed over. Why had none of them been made field-marshals? We had one or two honorary field-marshals; but look at the case of that officer who commanded the cavalry
 1535
 MR. ELIOTT LOCKHART  said, he was desirous of calling the attention of the House to the serious inconvenience that would arise from the Act for regulating the salaries of the parochial schoolmasters of Scotland being allowed to expire without any further provisions being proposed by the Government to meet the extreme urgencies of the case. The present
 1536 Geo.
 MR. APSLEY PELL ATT  said, that the colleges of the denomination to which the hon. Member (Mr. Miall) belonged were scattered all over the country, for the convenience of the young men attending them, and that they had three professors each. They could scarcely do with less than three each. The proportion of twenty-eight to 190, therefore, was not really so correct as if there were only one college instead of several.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said he must confess that he was one of those Irish Members who did not feel the slightest gratitude to the British Government for the money—simply because of the right of his country to have it. It was indeed but a small boon for a country that was so unequally and unjustly taxed as Ireland. The Schools of Medicine in Dublin were a benefit to the whole country, inasmuch as they raised a class of physicians far superior, generally speaking, to any in that country. The Government sent over a Commission of English physicians—who cared for them? The Irish people did not care for them. Well, they made a Report—and a precious Report it was—for they decided in directly the opposite way to the Committee of that House. So long as they required the gallantry of the Irish soldiers to fight their battles for them, they had no right to
 1548
 MR. H. BERKELEY : I rise, Sir, to move the second reading of the Sale of Beer Bill. I am not about to make a speech. I rely entirely on the Report of the Committee. I think that the convenience of the public requires this Bill; the Committee was of that opinion, and if any Gentleman objects to the Bill, I hope he will take his objection on the third reading, and allow it to pass the second reading now.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he should oppose the Bill upon the grounds he had stated earlier in the evening.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, he would not detain the House any longer with the subject; and, although he would not withdraw his Motion, he would consent to its being negatived. He would, in conclusion, tell the Admiralty, that they might break his heart, but they should not break his spirit.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  would say, on his honour, that his Commander in Chief (Admiral Sir Charles Rowley) did recommend him for the honour, and Lord Melville (the First Lord of the Admiralty at the time) did think him worthy of the honour. He was proceeding to comment on Sir Charles Wood's speech, when
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : Mr. Speaker, I am unable to accede to the appeal which has been made by the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston), and, according to my notice, will now move for a copy of a Minute by the Board of Admiralty, dated July 2, 1846, which relates to the opinion of the Board as to the claims of certain officers to be recommended to the gracious consideration of Her Majesty for the honour of the Bath, who had highly distinguished themselves in action against pirates. I am fully impressed with the sense of personal difficulty which I incurred when I placed this Motion on the paper and now experience in addressing this House, but I cannot permit myself to be discouraged since it embraces the case of brother officers unable to speak for themselves; in justice to them, as much as to myself, who have all been most hardly treated, I now rise to prevent individual injury from being drawn into a precedent for extended injustice in the future. Let me not be misunderstood—allow me to start fairly ahead. I neither disparage the services nor grudge the happier fortunes of the more successful of my brother officers. In singleness of purpose I lift up my voice against a decision irreconcilable with justice and opposed to sound policy; one calculated to break down an honourable spirit of ambition. At the outset I will frankly inform the House that my own name is
 1527 1528
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he could not receive the concession of the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams), for he thought it was sufficient that 20 per cent should be paid up.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he thought it was generally conceded that the minimum amount of shares should be 10  l.,
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he must oppose the Amendment, although he was willing to allow that it was entirely a question of degree; but the Committee would observe that the whole Bill was based on the Joint-stock Companies Act. It was essential to distinguish what was a Joint-stock Company and what was an ordinary partnership. The number of shareholders in a concern might be so numerous as to render it impossible to carry it on upon the principles of an ordinary partnership; and it was believed that any business in which there were more than twenty-five members would be unmanageable on those principles. The number of twenty-five shareholders, therefore, was the minimum of a Joint-stock Company. But the Amendment would reduce that minimum to six. He did not think Parliament was prepared to adopt such a proposal, and he should therefore oppose it.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that under the Bill now before the Committee no person would be liable beyond the amount of his own share, but by the Partnership Bill a person who took any part in the management of the concern would be liable to the full extent of his property.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, it was the universal rule of Parliament to require the shareholders of railways and other Companies, before having the benefit of an Act of the Legislature, to pay up a portion of their capital. It was a provision intended to guard against bubble Companies, and it would at the same time afford a test that the Companies were established for  bonâ fide
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he strongly objected to the Amendment, as he thought it would give undue credit to Companies by enabling creditors to look beyond the capital of shareholders. One of its effects would be to prevent trustees from ever holding shares.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, that the right hon. and learned Lord intended to let the salaries of the schoolmasters be reduced to the very  minimum,
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he concurred with the noble Lord that it was not desirable for the House of Commons to take into their hands a prerogative which at present rested with the Crown. He wished, however, to suggest with regard to the new Order of Merit that the rules should be drawn up so that the cases might be intelligibly known in which rewards would be conferred. In the case of a large army, some generals of division might recommend officers by wholesale; others might only recommend those officers who had performed signal and special services; while others might say that, where all had distinguished themselves, they did not think it right to mention any particularly. The result of that system was, that officers were subjected to great injustice, for officers frequently put forward claims to rewards of various kinds, on the ground that they had been mentioned in official despatches. He knew that great heartburning had been occasioned, because, in the distinctions which had been bestowed, the claims of officers who had behaved most meritoriously during the late war, and who had been almost constantly employed ever since, had not received the attention they deserved. He hoped, as a new Order of Merit was about to be established, that the distinctions would be bestowed in such a manner that the public might fully understand the grounds upon which they were conferred.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he had understood the Secretary to the Treasury to state that he had informed the hon. and gallant Member for Bath of the intention of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) to move that on Tuesday the Orders of the Day should have precedence of Notices of Motion. If, therefore, the hon. and gallant Gentleman had been anxious to bring forward his Motion, it would have been very easy for the hon. and gallant Gentleman, or some of his friends who took great interest in administrative reform, to have attended at six o'clock, in order to oppose the Motion of the noble Lord. With regard to the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Christchurch (Admiral Walcott), he did not think the First Lord of the Admiralty had correctly stated the object of that Motion, or its effect if carried. It was not intended to effect anything by compulsion, but merely to have the Minute in question laid upon the table for the satisfaction and guidance of an honourable
 1532
 LORD NAAS  said, he should oppose the Amendment, as calculated to interfere with the formation of new congregations. The Committee had already rejected the previous Amendment by a large majority, and in consistency it ought to support the Vote as it stood.
 LORD NAAS  said, he was surprised at the hon. Member for Lambeth's opposition, to the Vote, for if he took the trouble to look at the Report of the Committee last year he would have found that every one of his assertions were amply contradicted by all the witnesses that had been examined. There was one point to which he felt he might allude in connection with the subject—the amount of private charity practised in Dublin. Looking at its resources, and comparing its valuation with other towns, it would be found that the sums received from private charity exceeded any other town in the Empire. With regard to the matter of hospitals, there were 1616 persons in hospitals there, supported by private subscriptions, not in any way assisted by the State—being a far greater number than were supported in Edinburgh. He must express his regret at the course taken by the Government upon the subject. The Committee, which was composed of a large majority of English Members recommended an increase of the grant. The Government, finding it almost impossible to get over that Report, appointed a Commission, and endeavoured by a side wind to get rid of that Report. He maintained that it was an insult to their Committee to appoint a Commission. Such a course had never before been taken, and he hoped would never be again followed, as it had created great dissatisfaction and confusion.
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  said, he wished to know whether the report was true, that each of the agents employed received a percentage upon the value of each article? for, if so, it was very evident that Government did not manage such matters as economically as private individuals.
 Mr. APSLEY PELLATT  said he had given notice of his intention to move the reduction of the Vote by the sum of 12,000  l. 1545
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he did not see why the amount of shares should not be left entirely to the convenience of Companies.
 MR. ARCHIBALD HASTIE  said, his objections to the Bill were entirely based upon the ground stated by the hon. Member for Kendal (Mr. Glyn)—namely, that it would give an enormous power to capitalists by which they might effect the ruin of very small traders; and if the Amendment of the hon. and learned Gentleman should be carried it would make it four times more easy for large capitalists to work mischief in that direction. He should therefore oppose the Amendment.
 MR. ARCHIBALD HASTIE  said, the hon. Gentleman's observations proved that he knew nothing about credit; but he agreed with the hon. Gentleman that credit ought not to be given to the Companies which this Bill would call into existence.
 MR. FREWEN  said, he wished to inquire whether any practical good would arise from going on with the Bill, which, would most likely be rejected in another place on the ground that it altered a Bill passed last Session, which could not be said to have had a sufficient trial.
 MR. HINDLEY  said, he should be glad to have some information regarding the new catalogue.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. and gallant Admiral was not entitled to reply.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he must maintain, however, that the House ought not to interfere to compel him to make the recommendation to the Crown. The hon. and gallant Admiral wished him to produce the Admiralty Minute to the House; but he (Sir C. Wood) did not think it would be right to produce it. He did not underrate the importance of the service of the hon. and gallant Admiral for which he claimed. That service, which undoubtedly exhibited great gallantry, was, he believed, performed so far back as the year 1823, and consisted of an attack upon certain Cuban pirates, twelve of whom were killed, a large number wounded, and several others taken and hanged. But the Admiralty, at the time, did not think the service of sufficient importance to require the bestowal of a special distinction, and it was hardly to be expected that, after so great a lapse of time, they could revise the opinion of the authorities who were in office when the service was performed. It was true that when King William IV. was Lord High Admiral, he recommended the hon. and gallant Officer to the Secretary of State for the honour of the Bath; but the Secretary of State of that day did not think it right to recommend an increase in the number of naval officers eligible to the companionship of the Bath, in order to extend that honour to the hon. and gallant Officer. A subsequent recommendation was made to another Board of Admiralty in favour of the hon. and gallant Admiral, but the Admiralty did not think fit to comply with that recommendation. The Minute to which the hon. and gallant Officer's Motion alluded, was made, it was true, by the Admiralty when Lord Ellen-borough was First Lord; but if they thought the case was one in which the honour of the Bath ought to be given,
 1531 Gazette.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that if there was any object in the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member (Admiral Walcott), it was to force upon the Admiralty, or upon himself as First Lord, to recommend to Her Majesty to grant the honour of the Companionship of the Bath to himself and to certain other naval officers. Now, he submitted that, inasmuch as the Sovereign was the fountain of all honour, that was a matter entirely within the province of the Crown, with which that House had no right to interfere. It had been urged very properly that it would be unconstitutional for that House to interfere and to dictate to the Government in reference to the promotion of officers, but how much more would the House be exceeding its constitutional functions if it interfered with that which was essentially the privilege of the Crown? He concurred with the hon. and gallant Officer behind him (Captain Scobell), that the grant of honours should be as pure as possible. But did the House think that the interference of Members of Parliament, either individually or collectively, could induce to that purity? His hon. and gallant Friend said that the hon. and gallant Admiral, and three other officers, had been recommended by King William IV., when Lord High Admiral, for these honours, on account of certain gallant services. Now, the House would be astonished to find that the services referred to were performed
 1530
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he must deny that his Amendment was founded on the supposition that all Companies would be fraudulent and all their creditors fools. He had pointed out the possibility of the commission of fraud under the provision.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he was sorry the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Board of Trade resisted the Amendment. The security to the creditor of these Companies was not to be found in the amount of capital paid up, but in the amount of liability which remained under the terms of the Act, and which the creditors had the power to enforce. The Standing Order to which the right hon. Gentleman referred was no security whatever, as it was constantly evaded. According to the provision of the Bill, the shareholders would have to pay up whether the exigencies of the concern required it or not. Why should that be? But, suppose the money paid up, it could by various fraudulent devices be returned to them again. Or, suppose it were expended in
 1521 inter se,
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the question which had suggested itself to his mind was what remedy any creditor was to have
 1522
 MR. MIALL  said, he should move, as an Amendment, "That the sum of 2,050  l. 1543
 MR. GLYN  said, he should oppose the Amendment, because it would enable parties to get up Companies without having any capital whatever.
 MR. GLYN  said, he regretted that the Vice President of the Board of Trade had changed the amount originally proposed, 25  l., l.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he begged to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether (in addition to the relief already granted and proposed to be given in the Stage Carriage, &c. Duties Bill) it was intended to relieve brewers and others (as well as their sureties) from the lien of the Crown on their real estates for duties due and payable, or not due, but in course of becoming due, in the ordinary course of business, before any actual default of the trader, or any suspicion of insolvency or embarrassment on his part, and to rely on the Crown to issue extents whenever any
 1525
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that was the only class of Nonconformist Protestants in the United Kingdom who received one single shilling from the State, and yet, what made it all the more objectionable, they were, according to their numbers, the most wealthy of any sect of Dissenters. He thought it scarcely honourable for them to come to the House of Commons for the support of their ministers, while for the State in that way to maintain Trinitarians and Unitarians alike, whose religious opinions were as diverse as it was possible to be, made good men bow their heads in shame.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he objected to the amount paid to clergymen for attending Presbyterian prisoners.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he should support the Amendment. While the Nonconformists of Ireland had raised, in fifty years, by voluntary contributions, 3,500,000  l. l. l. l.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he must explain that the clergymen were bound to attend prisoners, and their duties extended beyond the performance of their spritual duties. It was greatly to the credit of Presbyterians that the number of prisoners was so inconsiderable.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he would beg to remind the Committee of what was said to have taken place at the time of the sale of the Bernal Collection. He had been informed that three Government agents attended there—namely, one for the Tower, one for Marlborough House, and one for the British Museum. The consequence was, these three gentlemen bid against each other, and the prices of the different articles were thereby very much enhanced. Now he begged leave to ask how was it proposed that the sum expended at that sale, reaching altogether to about 16,000  l.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he had received no intimation that an attempt would be made to take his Motion off the paper for to-morrow, in which many officers were deeply concerned. He hoped, however, Government would place him in such a situation as would enable him to bring forward a subject which required more setting to rights, and in which there was more injustice than in any other subject which could be brought before that House. With respect to the question now before the House, he lamented, with the hon. and gallant Officer opposite, that the system of granting honours of the Bath was such that it debarred meritorious officers from sharing honours to which they were entitled by their gallantry. The hon. and gallant Officer opposite (Admiral Walcott) and three others had been recommended by His late Majesty, while at the head of the Admiralty, for the honour of the Bath, and the expectation had been held out since by the Admiralty. The House ought to know why that expectation had not been realised. In the matter of promotion it was essential to the efficiency of the service that the utmost fairness should be maintained; but if purity of principle was necessary in the matter of promotion, how much more so was it necessary in regard to the distribution of honours? He regretted that an order of merit had not been established—the same as was the case in France. But he would rather take a lesson from an enemy, and would, therefore, point to the rewards given to merit and valour, no matter the rank of the soldier, by the Russian Government. It was
 1529
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  begged to state that he had said that William IV., when Lord High Admiral, had held out the expectation that the services of the hon. and gallant Admiral would be rewarded with the honour of the Bath, and that subsequent Boards of Admiralty, in confirming that expectation, included two or three other officers who had performed other services of a like character.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he wished to contradict most emphatically the assertion that the Secretary to the Treasury had informed him of an intention to move that the Orders of the Day should have precedence of Notices of Motion.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he wished to ask a question with regard to one of the provisions of the Bill. If, as he understood, it was founded on the Report of the Committee, one of its provisions appeared to him to be essentially at variance with the Report, and he wished to know whether it was accidental or intentional. The Report recommended that public-houses should be closed to one o'clock on Sundays, then open till three, then closed till five, after which they were to be open till eleven, but by the Bill as it was printed, it appeared to him, that public houses might be open the whole day on Sunday until three o'clock. He wished to know if that was intended or not?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that the state of the matter was as follows. The schoolmasters' salaries, which were payable half-yearly, would be paid next November upon the old conversion, and would not suffer any diminution under any circumstances. If the hon. Member chose to bring in a Continuance Bill, he had better do so next Session, when the House would have three months to consider it, as the diminution of salaries would not take place until May next, than bring it in now, when only a fortnight remained of the Session. But it was very desirable that the schoolmasters should not depend on a Continuance Bill from year to year. The Act of 1803 certainly contemplated that the salaries of schoolmasters should be subject to the fluctuations of the price of corn, and they had no ground for asking to be protected from the effects of a fall of prices; but he quite agreed that their salaries were disgracefully and scandalously low, and he had, therefore, been endeavouring during the present Session to pass a measure, which had been strenuously opposed by hon. Gentlemen opposite, to improve their condition and elevate their social  status.
 MR. WILSON  said, he would not follow the hon. Member through all the topics he had discussed, but would simply answer the questions with which he had concluded. The hon. Gentleman must be aware that the Civil Service Estimates constituted a special and entire branch of the Estimates; and before the first class of them was laid upon the table an order was taken to print the whole, but it was not customary to lay the last, class 7, which consisted of special and temporary services, upon the table until as nearly as possible the time when the Votes were to be taken. If those Estimates had been printed in March many things now included in them could not have been inserted, and must have then constituted Supplementary Estimates, which it was very undesirable to have to a greater extent than was absolutely necessary. The other paper to which the hon. Gentleman had alluded constituted an abstract and comparison of the whole, and could not of course have been made up until class 7 was completed. With regard to the increase of the Civil Service Estimates, it should be remembered that a tendency had been manifested of late years to remove many charges from the Consolidated Fund and place them in the Estimates of the year; and in many instances fees and such other sources of direct emolument had been abolished, and salaries had been substituted for them, payable
 1541 l.
 MR. WILSON  said, he thought he would be able to show that the Government had acted not only in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee, but also in the interest of those institutions. The Commission was appointed not to determine the amount of the grant, but to inquire generally into the institutions, with a view to their consolidation, if possible. The former Committee had recommended a gradual reduction of the grant; but when the Committee of last year had reported the reduction was arrested. The great object of the Commission was to show that the Schools of Medicine could be made more effective.
 MR. WILSON  said, it was totally contrary to the fact to say that the various agents employed at the sale bid against each other, and thus raised the prices of the articles; and in order to avoid even the possibility of such an occurrence, each department, before entering upon the sale
 1546 l.
 MR. WILSON  said, he would have the noble Lord remember that private individuals were invariably obliged to adopt the same course.
 MR. WILSON : The hon. Gentleman must be aware that its preparation was indeed a herculean task; and therefore its arrangement must necessarily occupy a long time.
 MR. WILSON  said, he would ask the hon. Gentleman to remain satisfied with the assurance given him last year, that every effort would be made by the Trustees to find increased accommodation both for pupils and the public in the new building.
 MR. BRADY  said, having been a Member of the Committee which sat to inquire into those hospitals, he felt he would not be justified in letting pass unnoticed the observations of the hon. Member for Lambeth. The witnesses examined did not consist of surgeons and physicians, but of those who were connected with the schools of medicine in England; who were known to be men of first-rate attainments, and who had a perfect knowledge of those institutions in Ireland from having visited them, and from having pupils who had been transferred from those schools. One of them was Mr. Guthrie, who gave evidence strongly in favour of the maintenance of those schools. He had some knowledge of the Members of the Commission. One of them, no doubt, was a man rendered illustrious in respect to his knowledge of surgery, and whose virtues and honourable character no one could have a doubt of. He (Mr. Brady) had had
 1549
 MR. BRADY  said, he rejoiced at the
 1552
 MR. CHEETHAM  said, he objected to the proposed addition to the number of ministers, and should move the reduction of the Vote by the sum of 415  l.
 MR. COBBETT  said, that as one of the Committee, he wished to say that if the provision was as the hon. and learned Gentleman had stated it was entirely accidental. The recommendation of the Committee was that public-houses should be closed from twelve o'clock on Saturday night to one o'clock on Sunday, when they were to be open till three, then to be closed till five, and then opened till eleven, and that was intended to be the provision of the Bill. With reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Horsfall) who said that the case of the publicans had been gone into by the Committee, and the case of the public had not been considered, he could assure the hon. Member that the case of the publicans had been carefully excluded by the Committee. They from the first took the arrangement of the case into their own hands, with the view to its being conducted as they thought it should be; and they called before them the principal magistrates and the Commissioners of police, who, with one or two exceptions, were the only persons examined, and the case of the publicans was not entered into, it being intended that the examination should go only into the case of the public.
 MR. GURNEY  said, that in reference to what fell from the hon. Member for Southwark (Mr. Pellat)) he would have the Committee remember that the British Museum was a repository of scientific specimens, and therefore it was of the first importance that every opportunity should be afforded to students of examining them.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he opposed the Amendment on the ground that it would impose a great hardship on the shareholders. The public were able to act for themselves better than Parliament could act for them.
 MR. VANCE  said, that the Vote was not asked for as a matter of humanity or commiseration—it was demanded as a simple act of justice. The Votes now under consideration were upon the Irish establishment before the Union took place, and was part of the contract that was then entered into when both countries were united. It would be nothing short of great injustice and robbery to deprive the city of Dublin of those Votes. The hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams), was wrong in saying the Vote was 20,000  l., l.; l.
 MR. WISE  said, he wished to make some observations upon the inconvenience of laying the Civil Service Estimates before the House at so late a period of the Session, and also to complain that Members never knew when Supply was coming on. It appeared to him that periods should be fixed for discussing each class, and that they should be proceeded with from day to day until the Votes were completed. The whole of the Army, Navy, and Ordnance Estimates, should be taken before Easter, and immediately after Whitsuntide the House should have fin opportunity of discussing all the Miscellaneous Estimates. The present system of discussing them at the end of the Session was most injurious to the public interest, as by being delayed so late, a great many Members were absent; and the Government even must be inconvenienced, as a time could not be fixed for the introduction of the Appropriation Bill, which concluded the business of the Session. Some of those estimates were only delivered on the 27th of July, which had been ordered to be printed on the 27th of March. A document, which professed to be a comparison of the expenditure of the Civil Service between 1854 and 1855, and which was said to be presented in March, was only delivered three or four days ago, and as that document was of some importance, it ought to have been in the hands of Members at the commencement of the Session, or at all events
 1538 l. l., l.; l., l. l. l. l.; l.; l.; l.; l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. 1539 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1540
 MR. BASS  said, he wished to take the earliest opportunity of explaining a point on which some misapprehension existed. He had been represented in  The Times
 MR. MALINS  said, he thought the Amendment was contrary to the principle of the Bill and was fraught with mischief. After the passing of the Bill every one would have fair notice, that in dealing with a Company he had nothing to look to but the assets of the Company, and if a creditor did not get paid it would be his own fault. The limitation of the credit of Companies would be very beneficial.
 MR. MALINS  said, he was of the same opinion. He would advise the Committee not to interfere with the question of paid-up capital, which was purely a matter of settlement between the Company and the public. If a man were prudent he would inquire into the character of the Company before investing his money in it, and if he were not a prudent man an Act of Parliament would not make him one. In the event of the Amendment being rejected the amount provided should be paid up simply for the purpose of complying with the Act of Parliament, while there could be no security against its being again handed over to the shareholders. There was no sound reason why persons constituting a Company on the principle of limited liability should be required to pay up a portion of their capital, when any two or three persons might establish themselves into a Company on the principle of unlimited liability without being required to pay up a single shilling.
 MR. MALINS  said, that a Joint-stock Company might even now consist of less than six partners, provided their shares were transferable without the consent of all the partners; he saw no reason, therefore, for objecting to the Amendment, which proposed that the Bill should apply to any partnership consisting of six members if they should choose to make their shares transferable without the consent of all the partners.
 MR. LOWE  said, he objected to the right hon. Gentleman's proposition because
 1523
 MR. ALCOCK  said, as the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Bath (Captain Scobell) with regard to promotion in the navy was postponed, he wished to make an observation on one point, and that was with regard to death vacancies in the navy. The Report of the Commission on the army and navy which sat in 1840, stated that death vacancies in the navy was an equivalent for the system of promotion in the army. He would beg to point out that that was not the case, there were several cases recently in the Black Sea and the Baltic in which promotion did not go by seniority in the case of death vacancies. It was not therefore true, as stated by the Report of 1840, that the death vacancies went by seniority. He hoped the Admiralty would give their attention to that point, and recollect that no officer in the navy under the rank of post captain could get his promotion by seniority, as in the army.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he was aware that the Bill was brought in on the recommendation of the Committee, and he only rose to express his regret that the Committee should have come to the decision which they had on such  ex parte
 MR. MITCHELL  said, the Bill as it stood enabled directors to call upon shareholders for a larger amount than was necessary to carry out their undertaking, if the stock of the Company were fixed at that large amount.
 MR. MITCHELL  said, he should support the Amendment, because it would bring the Companies under the system of registration which was to be established by
 1520
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, he thought it unjust to charge the opponents of the Vote with not bringing forward the abstract question of voluntaryism, for every one knew how indisposed that House was to discuss abstract principles. If a Member brought forward an abstract question, he was asked why not urge upon the House something more practical? and then, when he took that course, he was charged with taking up mere matters of detail. He thought it inconsistent that so powerful and wealthy a body as the General Assembly's College at Belfast should claim and receive aid from the State.
 MR. HAYTER  said, he must beg to explain that he had certainly intended to convey to his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Bath (Captain Scobell) that it was the intention of the noble Lord to make the Motion at six o'clock which had just been agreed to; but he had never said, nor intended to say, that his hon. and gallant Friend had assented to the proceeding.
 MR. KIRK  said, that as the only Irish Presbyterian in the House, he must protest against such gross imputations. He denied that the conduct of the Irish Nonconformist was beggarly. Their claim to the Vote rested on a positive contract with the Crown in 1673; and the present Vote was actually less in amount than the value of the glebe lands which were then given up. The fact was, the opposition to the grant was brought forward by a society in London for the liberation of the Church from State control. He denied, however, that there was anything like State patronage or control involved in the grant. He found, from the Congregational Year-book of 1855, that out of 2,760 chapels belonging to that body, 1,400 of them were without ministers; while in Wales, out of 484 chapels, 150 were in a similar situation.
 MR. MICHELL  said, he could bear testimony to the value of the Dublin hospitals as places of medical education. They were vastly superior to the hospitals in England. The Dublin surgeons were far beyond the English surgeons in skill and science.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he objected to the Vote. He was informed that the ministers of the Free Church of Scotland were a great deal better paid than those ministers in Ireland for whom the Vote was given; and he had no doubt if the Vote
 1550 l. l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he did not
 1544
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he was not at all surprised to hear the hon. Members from Ireland complain of not getting more of the public money. He thought that the people of the United Kingdom had every right to complain of the Vote of 20,000  l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he must complain that they were now called upon to vote forty items, amounting to about 750,000  l., l., l. l.,
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he did not wish to divide the Committee, and on the understanding that the Vice President of the Board of Trade would consent to provide that half the amount of the shares should be paid up he would withdraw his Motion, although he thought that 5  l.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, that he believed that although according to the Statutes of the Order of the Bath an officer could not receive its honours under a certain rank, yet after he had attained that rank, he was eligible for the honour for services previously performed. He observed that in the recent distribution of the honours of the Bath many officers received the decoration whose services were not confined to the late war. He made no complaint of that, but as some of the older officers had now received the honour, it struck him that many others who were equally entitled to the honour had been forgotten. He knew one Admiral who had been mentioned in nine despatches, who had not received the honour, while younger officers had received it who had been mentioned only in one despatch. There were many officers in the army similarly situated who had rendered good service in former times, and who were aggrieved at being omitted. He had no desire to coerce the Admiralty and the Secretary for War, but he would suggest that if any revision was made by the two heads of the departments of the system of rewards for past services, the services of old officers although they had been performed some thirty years ago might be considered.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he could not avoid remarking on what had been the conduct of the Government in reference to the Vote now before the Committee. The Committee would remember that some time ago an intention was announced on behalf of the Government to reduce the annual Vote by 10 per cent. each year, with a view to its gradual extinction. In consequence of that, on his (Mr. Grogan's) Motion a Select Committee was appointed last year, mainly consisting of gentlemen who usually supported the Government, to consider the justness of that decision. The consequence was, that after fully inquiring into the question, and after having gone into the minutest details, the Committee recommended that the grant ought to be continued in its integrity. Instead, however, of acting upon the recommendation of the Committee the Government actually appointed a Commission to revise and re-consider a subject which had been already referred for investigation to a select Committee of that House. Now he really believed that such conduct on the part of the Government involved almost a
 1547
 MR. GROGAN  said, he must maintain that the Government had no right to stifle the Report of the Committee by a side wind. He felt he had only done his duty in submitting the matter to the Committee.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he wished to say one word with reference to what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. I. Butt). With all deference to the hon. and learned Member's legal knowledge, he thought that the Bill would not interfere with the Act by which public-houses were closed during the whole of Sunday morning There was another provision of the Bill which he thought should be considered in Committee—that which gave an appeal from the conviction of a magistrate. That was not recommended by the Committee; and it was doubtful whether such an appeal should be given, when it was not given in other Acts relating to the same subject.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he; should be very glad if the hon. and gallant Admiral succeeded in his Motion, but he feared that objections would be raised that would cause its defeat.
 SIR GEORGE TYLER  said, he thought the First Lord of the Admiralty had insinuated that his hon. and gallant Friend (Admiral Walcott) and others were not entitled to the Order of the Bath. Now the fact was that his hon. and gallant Friend had been recommended for the Order, and in 1834, in answer to a letter
 1534
 MR. CAIRNS  said, that the opponents of all grants of that description ought to submit their views to the consideration of the House in the shape of some general principle, and ought not to make any particular Vote the battle-field for deciding the merits of their special convictions upon that subject. He should, therefore, decline to follow the hon. Gentleman into a discussion of the general question. He denied that the staff of professors in the college alluded to was extravagantly large, and he believed that those professors rendered very useful and important services. The number of students in the college was certainly small, but still it had increased every year since the grant was first given, and he believed there were now not less than eighty students. Six professors were not too many for eighty students, if they were to judge by the proportions observed in the colleges of the denomination to which the hon. Member belonged; for in those colleges the proportion of professors to students was as twenty-eight to 190, which was a figure much more striking than that of six to eighty.
 MR. CAIRNS  said, if the donation was necessary in the case of full-grown long-established congregations, it was ten times more necessary to young congregations.He should, therefore, oppose the reduction.
 MR. CAIRNS  said, he considered that the amount of the shares should be unlimited, and was of opinion that no nominal amount should be inserted in the Bill, but that the Companies should be left to fix the amount of the shares themselves. On
 1518
 MR. CAIRNS  said, he would now move to insert the Amendment, of which he had given notice.
 MR. CAIRNS  said, he would now move that the words in the clause, "of not less than 20 per cent" (being the amount to be paid up on the shares), should be omitted. The tendency of that provision would be to induce parties to have a smaller capital than that which was proper for their undertaking. Various modes might be resorted to by which that provision of the law might be evaded; and, so far from its being necessary for the protection of the public, it would, in his opinion, work very perniciously. It was much better to leave the Companies to judge for themselves as to what should be the amount of their capital, and what proportion of it should be paid up.
 MR. CAIRNS  said, no answer had been given to the case put by the right hon. Gentleman who moved the Amendment with regard to the opportunity for fraud which the clause would afford.
 MR. CAIRNS  said, that finding there was not any very strong feeling in favour of his Amendment, he would not trouble the Committee to divide.
 VISCOUNT GODERICH  said, he trusted that his right hon. Friend would not consent to the proposition that there should be as much as 50 per cent paid up.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he strongly objected to his right hon. Friend's
 1524
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he would ask the House to consider the bearing of the Motion now under consideration, which was nothing but an appeal to the House from the Executive with regard to the distribution of honours which flowed from the Crown. Motions of that kind were very taking, especially when the subjects of them were officers distinguished for their services whom every one would be glad to see receive honours and distinctions, in addition to those which they had gained already. But it would be impossible to carry on the Government of the navy and army if it was not left to the Crown, under the advice of its Ministers, to decide who were and who were not to receive honours. What would that come to? There might
 1533
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I wish, Sir, to call the attention of the House to the state of the business of the Session, and to make a proposal founded on the observations I shall address to the House. Reasons, which it is not necessary to dwell upon, render it desirable that this Session should close by the 14th or 15th of the next month. There are, however, a great many Votes of Supply still to be taken; and it is, therefore, difficult to say how long their discussion may last. Many hon. Gentlemen have given notices of Motion on going into Supply, and one day this week is to be employed on a Motion which has been forced upon us. Friday will, therefore, not be available for us unless the Gentlemen who have got possession of it will generously put off their Motions until next week. I propose to the House, therefore, that it shall pursue on this occasion the same course as it took last Session, and resolve that Orders of the Day should have the precedence of Motions on Tuesdays. There are one or two notices of Motions of considerable interest on the paper; but these Motions are for the purpose of affirming Resolutions, and as the Committees which they propose could not sit for practical purposes this Session, they are consequently, an appeal to the House to affirm an abstract opinion. I submit, therefore, that the opinion of the House might be taken after Supply. This will not affect the Session; but Supply determines the
 1526
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he was glad the right hon. Gentleman had called the attention of the Government to so important a subject. As long ago as the 18th of May last, Lord Ellenborough, in another place, made precisely the same statement, and uttered the same complaint which the right hon. Gentleman had now made; the noble Lord deplored that Parliament and the country were without information as to the manner in which the Commissariat was to be administered, and said he apprehended that at present no one stood between the Minister of War and the chief clerk of the Commissariat Department. He (Mr. Stafford) deeply regretted that Parliament had arrived so near the termination of the Session without having had a statement laid before it with regard to the organisation of the War Department. More than a year since the Secretaryship for the Colonies was separated from the Secretaryship for War, or rather a fourth Secretary of State was appointed; and from that period to the present all they knew of the organisation of that important department was derived from the statements of the Duke of Newcastle and Mr. Sidney Herbert before the Sebastopol Committee, both of whom declared that they knew nothing of the arrangements, and that during their tenure of office they had gone on, notwithstanding the warning of the noble Lord the Member for London (Lord J. Russell) without organising any plan; in fact, although Parliament had voted the money for carrying on, the war with unsparing liberality, they were still in utter ignorance with regard to the arrangements that had been made for conducting that department. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would say when the Government would be able to give an ample and explicit statement of the changes which had been effected in the War Department, especially with regard to the financial position of the Secretary for the War Department.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that some time ago he had taken the liberty to ask for information as to the re-organisation of the War Department; and it appeared that there was a department called the "Army and Civil Department;" and anybody could see that such an arrangement would not work. He felt assured that he expressed the feeling of all men in his profession when he said that there was an utter disorganisation in the military departments; there had been a transfer of almost all the military departments, where military knowledge was necessary to civilians; and he predicted that from such a system there must come failure. They suffered under the great disadvantage, that they never could get a satisfactory answer to anything in the military way; and in the organisation, they had no definition of what was intended to be military and what civil. He saw many Gentlemen opposite who talked of Administrative Reform, and if they were sincere, they would pay attention to those Estimates and the re-organisation of the military departments, and force the matter on the attention of the Government.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was his wish, and he believed generally the wish of the Government, to give the fullest information and satisfaction to the House with respect to the changes recently made in the War Department. One of those changes consisted, as his right hon. Friend (Mr. Labouchcre) had correctly stated, in transferring the Commissariat from the Treasury to the office of the Secretary for War. He was necessarily himself personally ignorant of the expenses of the Commissariat, the whole duty of the Treasury now being that the funds should be sufficient to meet the demands of the different military departments. The demands of the Admiralty and War Departments and the whole of their detailed expenditure were under the control of those departments. The Estimates of the anticipated expenditure were sent to the Treasury for approbation before they were submitted to Parliament, but the expenditure was wholly conducted on the responsibility of the War Department, and it was merely the duty of the Treasury to see that the funds were in existence to defray the drafts on the Exchequer. With regard to what his right hon. Friend had observed as to the extent of the Commissariat expenditure, he would merely make one remark, that undoubtedly
 1561
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, with regard to the general constitution of the War Office, that was a subject which he conceived had better be deferred till next Session; but with respect to the transfer of the Commissariat to the War Department, he had some observations to make on that particular subject. It was his fortune to call attention to the subject at an early period of the Session. He then felt that the arrangement which had been made was deficient and would require further consideration. He considered that the Treasury, in transferring the Commissariat to the War Department, had transferred more than they ought to have done. The Commissariat did not relate to war expenses only, but to other expenses which had nothing whatever to do with the war The Government, therefore, ought to have drawn a distinction between the two, and ought to have kept that portion of the
 1562
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought that upon the whole it was not desirable to anticipate the discussion which would come on when the Supplementary Estimates were before the House, and when ample explanation would be given by the Gentlemen representing the several departments with regard to the details. As to the question of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Macartney), if it should please the House to agree to the Supplementary Estimates, it would then become his (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) duty to show that there was sufficient Ways and Means to meet them, for he
 1564 l
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he would give his attention to the subject, with a view of making some other provision for the Episcopalian Clergy of Scotland.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he fully concurred with the hon. Member in thinking that the powers of the Charity Commissioners were not sufficiently extensive. That, however, was not the fault of the Government, for the provisions of the Bill having for its object the extension of the powers of the Commissioners were altered in the other House of Parliament, and the Government were obliged to accept the Bill with those alterations. He believed that until the power which the Court of Chancery posessed over those charities were withdrawn from that Court, and vested in the Charity Commissioners, the charities of the country would never be satisfactorily conducted.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he considered that the hon. Member for Bodmin (Mr. Michell) was not justified in accusing the metropolitan Members of sanctioning or carrying out jobs, as the hon. Member had termed them. It ought to be remembered that the Bill introduced by the right hon. Member for Marylebone, the late President of the Board of Health, sanctioned the principle of levying an exclusive rate on the metropolis for metropolitan works, and if the Bill passed it would carry out the principle which hon. Members were desirous of having enforced.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he wished to inquire whether a portion only of the Agricultural Statistics in England was to be taken, while in Scotland and Ireland they were collected in a complete form.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that one reason why those statistics were so readily collected in Ireland was, that there they had the advantage of the services of the constabulary for the purpose.
 MR. DUNCAN  said, he quite admitted that the trade of Scotland should stand on its own footing, and was satisfied that it would not be injured if the Vote was withdrawn.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he also must protest against the idea expressed by the Secretary of the Treasury, that any vested interest in money on the part of Scotland could be recognised—a notion which had been disclaimed by several of the Scottish representatives to their great honour.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that it was in 1839 that the Ambassador's house at Constantinople was burnt down, and every year since there had been some demand of money for that building.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that the summer residence had been given by the father of the present Sultan to the British embassy.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he would not object to that part of the Vote which was necessary to secure the ground, for he believed it would be requisite hereafter to erect considerable buildings which it was advisable should be on that spot. But though he did not object to the grant for the land, yet he had the strongest objection to grant the amount required for the buildings for the current year. He did
 1576 l l l. l
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he hoped that arrangements would be made for a speedy distribution of medals among the soldiers returned from the Crimea. He knew many cases in which soldiers had been obliged to return to their homes without receiving their medals. He would also ask how it could be that the 72,000 medals were charged in the estimate at 10 s s d s
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER (in reply to Mr. W. Williams)  said, that some years ago the old bridge at Inverness was destroyed by an extraordinary flood, which was supposed to have been caused by works at a lock for which the Government were considered partly responsible. The matter was fully considered at the time, and the result was that an agreement was come to that one-half the expense of building a new bridge should be borne by the public, and one-half by the counties in the neighbourhood of Inverness. A Bill was introduced into Parliament giving effect to that agreement, and the necessary money was voted. In consequence, however, of unforeseen difficulties in the construction of the bridge, the estimate had been exceeded, and it would be only fair that half the excess of 6,000 l.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought the Committee ought to take into consideration the peculiar difficulty of maintaining roads in a mountainous country. For instance, the local resources of the Alps would be entirely insufficient to support a road over the Simplon, and it required all the resources of the French Empire to make and maintain one. He would also remind the Committee that the population of the Highlands of Scotland being very thin, and the surface of the country very unequal, it came to this, that bridges, costing a great deal of money, had to be erected in very poor districts; some extraneous assistance, therefore, was not unnaturally required for the purpose.
 MR. DUNCAN  said, it was a question whether, if the case had gone into a Court of Law, the Government would not have had to pay every shilling of the expense for rebuilding the bridge.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, it was his opinion that the Director General of Artillery ought to remain at Woolwich.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he was glad to hear that it was intended to continue the construction of gunboats; he should very much like to have a pledge from the Government that they would cease to spend more money in the building of enormous vessels, which were nearly useless in modern warfare. He wished to know what had been the cost to the country of the floating batteries, when it might be expected that those batteries would proceed to sea, and whether it was really and seriously supposed by the Admiralty that they would be effective for the purpose for which they had been devised? He wished to inquire also, perceiving the large items which were set down in the subsequent Vote for the steam factory and the purchase of house and premises at Constantinople, whether it was intended to have a permanent establishment there?
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, he must
 1595
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he thought that there would have been a saving of expense if those premises had been purchased at an earlier period. He hoped that among them a coaling place was included.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he should be glad if the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Admiralty would afford them any information relative to the attempt to launch the  Marlborough
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he wished to ask whether there was any truth in the report that the Government were about to establish a civil naval hospital somewhere in the Bosphorus? He should be glad to see some such statistics of the hospital at Therapia as had been furnished to the House relative to the hospital on the other side of the Bosphorus. The position of the hospital at Therapia had been, and was still, he believed, very unsatisfactory; but it would be well if some returns could be furnished giving the proportion of deaths to cures there, with any other information that could be given.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, it was his belief that very little improvement had taken place in the transport department. He was convinced that one Gentleman, responsible to the Admiralty, would manage the business better than any Board. Until that was the case they could never fix the responsibility. Looking at the number of men and horses conveyed, the work appeared
 1602
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that having paid great attention to the state of the transport service in the East, he had come to the conclusion that it was impossible to arrive at a correct knowledge of the real amount of service performed, and losses sustained by mismanagement and delay, for the simple reason that those most concerned in it and who best knew the facts, were precisely the persons who had the greatest interest in concealing them. He thought the Committee ought to be informed how far the Transport Board was independent of the Admiralty, and what was the precise nature of the relations which existed between those departments. It would be recollected that in June, 1854, the Duke of Newcastle stated that the department in which the greatest failures had occurred was the transport service, and the noble Duke expressed his opinion before the Sebastopol Committee, that the transport system would not work satisfactorily in such a contest as that in which the country was now engaged unless it were placed under the control of the Minister of War. He wished to know whether the First Lord of the Admiralty concurred in the opinion of the noble Duke, or whether he still thought that the transport service could be properly conducted under the superintendence of the Board of Admiralty? With regard to the statement of the hon. Member for Tewkesbury (Mr. H. Brown) that there was a weekly communication between the War Department
 1603
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, he wished to say that he had never made any statement, either in that House or elsewhere, as to the number of cables and anchors on board the  Prince Prince.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he believed the superintendent of the department to be a most efficient officer. Make him the one responsible party, and the others under him, and he should be satisfied. The hon. Gentleman had made allusion to two ships that he (Mr. Lindsay) once was interested in. He believed that those two ships were the lowest in the list.
 THE MARQUESS OF BLANDFORD  said, he should oppose the Motion. The Bill was brought in, not upon the responsibility of the Government, but upon that of a private Member only. It had been brought in on the 27th of July, was read a second time immediately afterwards, and it was now proposed to go into Committee, He objected to such hurry in the case of a measure which upon all hands must be admitted to be viewed with very different feelings by different parties. The only evidence which was taken by the Select Committee which had sat on the subject was in favour of the views of those who supported the Bill, and there was, no doubt, a large mass of evidence which might have been given on the other side had it been called for. The Committee had reported that they had not time to go into further evidence, but even the evidence which had been taken had not yet been put into the hands of Members, and hence, without expressing any opinion upon the measure, he should move that the Committee be adjourned to that day three months.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, that the
 1607
 THE MARQUESS OF BLANDFORD  said, he had no objection to amend his Motion by moving that the Committee be taken that day week.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he thought that Bills ought not to be passed which were based upon the Reports of Select
 1608
 MR. VILLIERS  said, that the principal change made in the law was an extension of the time of closing from ten to eleven at night. As one of the friends of the Bill of last year he thought the change now proposed the best thing that could be done, and he did not look upon it at all in the light of a repeal of the Act.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, he would also like to know what had been the cost of those batteries?
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, as a Member of the Committee which had recommended the Vote, he wished to say they were unanimously of opinion that the
 1586 l. l.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, he wished to explain that 5,000 l l. l. l.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, the particular medals referred to were granted to soldiers and sailors for distinguished services.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that there were many persons who had watched the working of the Act of last year who were not examined before the Committee on the Bill. Setting aside, however, any objections upon that ground, he certainly thought the evidence which was taken ought to be in the hands of Members before the Bill went into Committee.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that the sole object of the Bill was to carry into effect a treaty with France. The hon. and gallant Member for Brighton really represented in the matter a great poaching interest. Oysters were taken at forbidden times, and the French Government complained of the infraction of the law, and demanded that we should enforce our engagement with them. He hoped, in spite of his hon. and gallant Friend and his poaching constituents, that the House would pass the Bill.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he must admit that the present system of Returns was very unsatisfactory, much corn being sold without being returned, and a good deal being returned twice over. The Report of the House of Lords on the subject of Agricultural Statistics had, as had previously been stated, alluded to the matter, and one of the proposals contained in that Report was for making those returns more complete.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he thought that the Estimate was reasonably framed, supposing the course pursued last year were continued. One reason of the collection being made complete in Scotland was, that the farmers themselves had rendered valuable assistance.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that when the estimates were framed it was in contemplation to adopt some such course as that followed last year with regard to some parts of the country; that was, that it should be tested whether the system of inspection under the Poor Law might not be made available for the collection of agricultural statistics. That experiment, however, had not been successful, and a Committee of the House of Lords had recommended a plan which would require a legislative enactment in a future Session. Consequently, with regard to England, nothing would be done during the present year, and no expense would be incurred. As to Scotland, the plan resorted to last year had been eminently successful, and it would be continued; and also with regard to Ireland, the existing system, which was satisfactory in its results, would be adhered to.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he begged to point out that the application of the Vote, and the distribution of the money, was fully and minutely explained in a Report of great interest, annually presented to the House.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he also wished to ask if the Government had considered a plan submitted to them by an independent architect? If adopted, it would require an increased outlay of fifty per cent., but it would give considerably more than double the amount of accommodation provided by the plan which had been adopted.
  MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he felt bound to complain of the manner in which the Act had been carried out, whereby a large number of grave-yards in the east of London had been closed, while only seven new burial-grounds had been opened. The consequence was, that those in crowded districts which had not been closed had become literally gorged. He thought some explanation was required on this point.
 MR. FREWEN  seconded the Motion. He contended that the Act of last year had not had sufficient time for its effect to be tried.
 MR. HINDLEY  said, he had no objection to test the experiment, but he had no hope of its success, unless Englishmen in that part of the country would be honest. It was vain to talk of bringing the Kafirs to civilisation and Christianity when we allowed our colonists to take possession of the land of the natives.
 MR. HINDLEY  said, he wished to know whether the colonists were to be protected if they went into the Kafir country and took possession of the natives' land?
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the proposed Vote was one of a very melancholy description. It was unnecessary for him to say anything in praise of the exertions of Sir John Franklyn in the cause of Arctic discovery, and now that his fate and that of his brave companions had become, unfortunately, too certain, there was nothing left for the country to do but to testify its sense of their services by erecting some suitable monument to their memory. After consultation with Lord Ellesmere, and others, it had been determined to intrust the execution of it to Mr. Westmacott, but, as that gentleman had been absent in Paris, it was only within the last few days that his design had been received. It was proposed that the monument should be erected at Greenwich, where already there was a memorial erected to the memory of the gallant Lieutenant Bellot, who had met with an early death in the same cause. It was there, too—and this had weighed very much with the Government in selecting the site—that another great Arctic discoverer, Sir Edward Parry, had resided as Lieutenant Governor of the Hospital until very lately, when he had fallen a victim to a disease contracted in the course of his numerous and lengthened voyages. It was proposed that on the monument to be erected should be inscribed the names of Sir Edward Parry, and of all the officers and men who had fallen victims in that service.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : Mr. FitzRoy, I now beg to move the Supplementary Naval Estimate for the year 1855ndash;56 (amounting to 1,141,168 l 1590 l
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the cost had been about 50,000  l.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, it was true that the  Marlborough, 1597 Twelve Apostles
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that there was no intention to have a permanent dockyard or naval establishment at Constantinople, although so long as our ships were employed in the Black Sea it was, of course, necessary to provide on the spot the means of repairing them.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he had not the least hesitation in telling the hon. Gentleman that he did not agree in the opinion of the Duke of Newcastle that the transport service ought to be placed under the control of the Secretary for War. The late First Lord of the Admiralty (Sir J. Graham) expressed an opinion in which he (Sir C. Wood) entirely concurred, that the management of the naval transport service would be conducted much more satisfactorily under the control of the Board of Admiralty than by the Secretary for War. He might observe that the communication between the War Department and the Board of Admiralty was not weekly, or even daily, but almost hourly. With regard to the hospital ships, to which the hon. Member for North Northamptonshire (Mr. Stafford) had referred, he might state that there were now four vessels employed in conveying the sick and wounded from the Crimea to Scutari, and taking back convalescents, and he believed they were properly fitted, and perfectly efficient for the service in which they were engaged. He regretted to hear the statement of the hon. Gentleman with regard to the condition of the invalids who had recently arrived from the Black Sea, but he could only say that no complaints had reached him on the subject.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he would inquire whether any such statistical accounts as those desired by the hon. Gentleman could be produced. He had not the least objection to furnish any such accounts.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the Vote new before the Committee was certainly one of a very large amount, but the reason of the increase was mainly to be found in the additional services they had been called upon to perform. Since the passing of the last Estimates the Government had, under various arrangements with our allies, undertaken to convey troops, horses, and stores to an extent far beyond what was then contemplated. The Committee was aware that a treaty had been entered into with Sardinia, by which we had engaged
 1598 "We are a military nation; we have men whom we are willing to send to the Crimea. You, on the other hand, are a great naval nation, and if we send troops, horses, and stores, we ask your assistance to convey them." 1599
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the object of purchasing the premises at Constantinople was to save the public money, and also to centralise the naval establishments in that part of the world, which were at present scattered. At present the country was at the expense of hiring buildings, and if the purchase of those buildings were effected, they could, it was estimated, be sold without loss when they were no longer required.
 MR. FRENCH  said, he wished to know why the resources of science were not employed to a greater extent in the present war? He should like to receive further information than had already been given as to the intentions of the Government respecting the proposals of the Earl of Dundonald. The plans of that gallant Nobleman were not new; more than forty years ago they were submitted to the scrutiny of Lord Exmouth and Lord Keith, who were impressed with a conviction of the terrific efficiency of the plans, but suggested that for the sake of the human race they should remain unknown. Those plans had slept for forty years, and were only brought forward now when the position of the country required every man's aid. The Government had referred those plans to a joint Commission composed of several scientific men and two admirals. Although a considerable time had now elapsed, no answer had yet been returned to the noble and gallant Earl. It had been said that, however ingenious the plans, there existed doubts as to the expediency of carrying them into effect. Lately those plans had been submitted to Sir Charles Napier, who pledged his professional reputation that Lord Dundonald could by them accomplish all he had undertaken to do. The noble
 1591 l l
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, he wished to inquire why Captain M'Clure was not to receive the sum of 20,000 l l.
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, that after what had taken place, he would not divide the Committee upon the Vote.
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, he was surprised that the Committee could go on voting money year after year for roads and bridges in Scotland, while in England and Ireland the counties were called on to pay for such works. He should certainly move that the Vote be disallowed.
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, if such Votes were granted to Scotland, why were they not granted to Ireland? He should like some explanation on the subject.
 MR. BANKES  said, he thought that 90,000 l.
 MR. BANKES  said, he wished to explain that in the Estimates there was an item for State apartments for the use of all the Ministers on the first story, and the cost was put down at 95,000 l
 MR. BANKES  said, that Buckingham House stood upon one of the best sites in the metropolis, and he considered that it was incurring a very great expense and a consequent loss to the public to select such a situation for a Public Office. He wished to know in what manner it was proposed to adapt Buckingham House to the public service, and whether it was intended to be permanently used as a Public Office?
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he wished to call attention to No. 4 in the Estimates, stating sums paid to Commissions. It appeared to him that that was a very objectionable mode of expending the public money. It afforded facilities for providing for certain Friends of the Treasury.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, that since the issue of the Supplementary Estimates for the Commissariat some anxiety had been evinced to know whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer was in such a position as not to be under the necessity of asking the House, in Committee of Ways and Means, to provide for the additional 5,000,000 l.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he found some medals charged for were for the Kafir war, now ended three years since. He thought it was a great pity that the grant of medals should be delayed so long that the boon lost its value. He also found 1,000 medals for distinguished services, which he assumed were connected with the new Order of Merit.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, it might be asked why so large a sum was awarded by the Committee to Captain M'Clure. It should be remembered, however, that that distinguished officer had exhibited the highest qualities, not amid the temporary excitement of a battle-field, but throughout the whole four years during which he and his companions were in the ice. By his indomitable bravery and consummate seamanship in penetrating as far as Percy Bay, he had achieved one of the most extraordinary enterprises that could ever be attempted in the Arctic Seas; and the people of England would not grudge him the reward that was now to be offered to him for his eminent exertions, He had felt that the services of Captain Collinson and Captain Kellett were beyond all praise; but had the Committee entered upon their claims, it would have been impossible to know where to stop, as there were many others whose services were almost equally entitled to recognition. The Committee, therefore, had decided upon recommending a reward only in the case
 1587
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, that as they were called upon to vote the large sum of 1,141,168 l 1593 1594 s.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he wished to call attention to the fact that the Supplementary Estimates for the Commissariat for the ensuing year amounted to 2,500,000 l. 1559
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he must protest against the doctrine of the Secretary for the Treasury, that if the money was not wanted for the object for which it was originally granted, namely, the promotion of the Scotch fisheries, that it must be necessarily voted and applied to some other purpose for the benefit of Scotland.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord if that traffic had increased or diminished during the last year?
 MR. H. BROWN  said, he wished to call the attention of the Committee to the reckless manner in which the public money was expended in that particular branch of the service. Some time ago a complaint was made that a large steamship had been loaded by three different departments, acting in no concert whatever, and that when she was in the Thames she had to be surveyed in order to decide whether she was seaworthy, and fit to proceed to sea. That vessel was the  Candia, l. 1600 l. 1601 Prince Prince
 MR. H. BROWN  said, he had not been invited to give evidence before the Sebastopol Committee, and therefore he did not attend that Committee.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, that the Committee had unanimously decided that Captain M'Clure was deserving of the proposed reward, because to him belonged the distinguished honour of discovering the northwest passage. It was impossible to eulogise too highly the heroic daring, the extraordinary skill, and the undaunted resolution shown by that gallant officer in taking up the enterprise at the point where Sir Edward Parry and other explorers had left it, and in bringing it to a successful completion. His wonderful efforts in navigating his ship round the western coast of Behring's-land, and in braving the dangers of a rocky ironbound coast on the one hand, and the fearful perils of the ice on the other, were altogether unparalleled; and nothing had ever more impressed his (Mr. Butt's) imagination or riveted his interest than the details of that remarkble achievement. On entering Parry's Sound, Captain M'Clure came to the conclusion that the land lying to the westward was an island, and by resolutely acting upon that opinion, and sailing round that island, he ultimately set at rest that long uncertain question—the existence of a north-west passage.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, that the sum of 20,000 l l.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, it was not right to say they had never had national assistance in Ireland towards making roads. If the hon. Member divided the Committee, he should feel bound to support the Vote.
 MR. BELL  said, the proposed Vote was the first instalment of a sum of 585,000 l
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, he would take that opportunity of asking why a grant of 1,000 l.
 MR. WILSON  said, that, on the contrary, the Vote had attracted particular attention, and one or two hon. Members had risen in their places and asked what Vote was being taken, and he himself had answered their inquiries.
 MR. WILSON  said, that the hon. Member had, as was not seldom the case, been somewhat rash in bringing forward a charge against him. It was perfectly true that he had told the hon. Gentleman that it was his intention to bring on the Vote connected with the National Gallery the first thing at the evening sitting, and that Vote had been brought forward at six o'clock when the hon. Member might have objected to it if he had been in his place.
 MR. WILSON  said, he hoped that his hon. Friend would not divide the Committee. The Committee ought to think themselves well off in not having to pay the whole of the expense of the bridge instead of a part, inasmuch as the accident had been caused by certain works executed by the Government.
 MR. WILSON  said, he believed that thirty years of the Crown lease were yet unexpired, but was not aware what was the amount of the ground-rent.
 MR. WILSON  said, that the object of the Government had been to close crowded metropolitan burial-grounds and provide the means of opening others. For that purpose rates were originally intended to be levied, but they had been given up, and now the Government were obliged from time to time to come to Parliament for the money which had been expended under the Act.
 MR. WILSON  said, he believed that this would be the last Vote of the same kind for the embassy houses. One of the houses had been burned down twice within a few years; and now it was thought fit, as a matter of prudence and economy, to engage workmen, whose special business it was to protect the building from fire.
 MR. WILSON  said, he well remembered Lord Dudley Stuart's account of the Hospital at Constantinople, and the readiness with which the Committee voted the money for a new one. An arrangement was made that before the Treasury acted the Foreign Office should arrange that all merchant shipping, foreign as well as British, should pay tonnage at Constantinople towards the support of the hospital.
 1574
 MR. WILSON  said, he had no doubt the figures were correct, but would make inquiry.
 MR. WILSON  said that the origin of the Vote was the formation of military and other roads in the Highlands for public purposes. The hon. Member (Mr. Scully) seemed to forget the large sums which had been spent on the road to Holyhead and on the Menai Bridge, to facilitate communication with Ireland. The Vote was for the purpose of maintaining roads in the Highlands, which would not otherwise be kept up, and which were often useful for public purposes. Any new roads were made and kept up by the counties.
 MR. WILSON  said, he must admit that the subject was one that deserved consideration, and he would promise that the attention of the Government should be directed to it. He thought it would not be desirable to withdraw the money altogether from Scotland, but he conceived that it might be applied to a more useful purpose.
 MR. WILSON  said, that the hon. Member for Cirencester was perfectly right, for in the case of all Commissions issued by the Crown the Commissioners were not only not paid, but they incurred considerable expense from having to come up to town to attend those Commissions, the only paid officer of which was the secretary attached to each.
 MR. WILSON  said, that with regard to the fees paid on appointments to offices of State, it was customary for the person who was appointed to a patent office to pay for the patent himself; but when he was moved from one patent office to another the charge for the second patent was paid for him. As to the fees charged on the creation of knights the explanation was as follows:—when a person was created a knight, or had an honour conferred upon him for services in the field or elsewhere, it was deemed a fit and proper thing that the value of that honour should not be diminished by having any pecuniary charge attached to it. With respect to the compensation to the British Minister and other officers in Russia, they had been obliged to sell off everything they had at a moment's notice, and with great difficulty had escaped safely through the country. Of course a consul who was appointed to a situation which he expected to be for life had every reason to make his arrangements of a permanent kind; and when, upon the outbreak of war, he was disturbed in the possession of his office, and subjected to enormous sacrifices by the sale of his household furniture, carriages, and other things necessary for his office, the Government thought it was only fair that the person so situated should be reimbursed his losses and extraordinary expenditure. The Commission of Inquiry into the Corporation of London was a Crown Commission, hostile to the Corporation, and the expenses of such Commissions were always borne by the public.
 MR. FERGUS  said, he did not think there was a single item in the whole Vote that was open to greater objection than
 1566 l
 MR. JAMES MACGREGOR  said, he must express his feelings of indignation that money should be given to Scotland which could not be fully explained or accounted for.
 MR. WISE  said, he considered that the Vote required some explanation. The balance left after the Estimate last year was only 3,301 l l l l
 MR. WISE  said, every gentleman connected with the provinces must be aware what an immense amount of corn was sold without being included in any Returns. Those Returns as now made were delusive, and of very little advantage to the public,
 1573
 MR. WISE  said, he was one of those who thought that the tax-payers of the country were fully justified in complaining of the present Vote. They had to bear their own local burdens, and were asked also to contribute towards a park for the benefit and improvement of the metropolis. He felt that so great a principle was involved in the Vote that he should take the sense of the Committee upon it.
 MR. WISE  said, he wished to call attention to the fees charged in the Estimates on the appointment of the Duke of Newcastle and some other individuals to State offices, and likewise to the fees charged on making knights, and did not
 1565 l l
 MR. HENLEY  said, he regretted that no provision was made in the Estimates for the salaries of the inspectors of charities, which he thought ought to be paid out of the public taxes, and not thrown upon the funds of the charities.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the House and the country must be greatly obliged to the right hon. Member for Taunton (Mr. Labouchere) for calling attention to such an important matter. They were about to have before them large Supplementary Estimates, and most of the discussion had turned upon the desirableness of having a sufficient check upon the expenditure of the money; but there was another point of still more importance that had not been referred to, which was, that unless there was a good and sufficient system in operation for supplying the wants of the army they would be expending enormous sums of money uselessly, and leave the wants of the army unsupplied. If a good system were adopted there would be no difficulty in keeping the accounts in a manner easily to be understood; whereas, if they proceeded hand over head, so that no man could foresee what might be needed or knew what was to be done, they would attempt to apply the system of checking
 1563
 MR. MULLINGS  said, that he had acted on Commissions, but had never received any portion of sums mentioned in the Votes. He wished that the Secretary for the Treasury would make it generally known that the Commissioners were not paid.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he was of opinion that the subject of the Bill was not one in which the House should lightly interfere; but, at the same time, he thought it would not be worthy of the House to repeal in one Session an Act passed in the preceding Session.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he did not see why such Votes should be objected for Scotland, when they had similar ones for England, for they had just passed one for Chelsea Bridge. At the same time he wanted to see the whole of them done away.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he wished to know why it was that the country was
 1579
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he was afraid that the proposed Vote would be but the commencement of a perpetual annual charge.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he did not defend the Vote, except on the consideration that it was only carrying out an arrangement which had been entered into some time since. He should not originally have been in favour of that expenditure.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he should support the Vote, as he had done on a former occasion, not because he approved its principle, but because he considered that if he were to vote against the completion of the park he should practically entail a greater burden on the country than the sum now required would be.
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he observed that in Scotland and Ireland the system adopted for collection of those statistics effected the object, and he thought that it was a disgrace to the country that a perfect system could not be devised for England, especially as in France, the acreage of which country was much larger, the collection of agricultural statistics down to the most minute articles of produce was admirably accomplished.
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he remembered that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Colonies, in a most able speech which he made about seven years ago, advocated the principle of the Colonies being self-supporting, and he much regretted that the first step taken by that right hon. Gentleman, after accepting his present position, should be to propose a Vote like the present.
 MR. ALCOCK  said, that the present was admitted by the public at large, and must be known to every Member as a most exceptional case. Every one knew that the matter pressed for legislative interference, and it was in the recollection of all that that House itself had been put in a very false, not to say dangerous, position, through the feelings excited by the Act of last year. He had it in contemplation to move as an Amendment that public-houses be allowed to be open on Sundays from six o'clock to twelve at night. He hoped to have an opportunity of taking the sense of the House upon that proposal.
 MR. MITCHELL  said, that the sum mentioned in the Vote now before the Committee was almost thrown away, because the Charity Commissioners had not sufficient power to interfere with the nefarious doings of the Court of Chancery with regard to all the charities of the kingdom.
 MR. THORNELY  said, that if the object was to ascertain the amount of corn produced, with a view to judge of the quantity required to be imported, he thought the corn merchants would take care to ascertain it. He did not, however, deny the utility of collecting agricultural statistics.
 MR. BERESFORD  seconded the Amendment. He trusted that the House would do nothing to impede the oyster fishery trade, and that, at any rate, an inquiry would be instituted before the law was altered. In the deep sea wholesome oysters might be obtained between April and September.
 MR. MICHELL  said, he was opposed to the system of granting money out of the public taxes for the construction of public parks, which tended greatly to benefit and raise the value of the private
 1568
 MR. MONSELL  said, that one of the departments which it was intended to remove from Woolwich was that of the Director General of Artillery.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he objected to the Vote, and wished the Committee to compare the present application from Scotland with the case of South Wales, where, last winter, some eighty or ninety bridges had been washed away by the floods, and yet not a single sixpence had been asked of the country at large to defray the expense of their restoration. He thought the Committee ought to set its face against all grants for local purposes.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that the cost of our American colonies previous to the declaration of independence had been only 64,000 l
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to point out that, though beneficial to the health of the neighbourhood, the closing of the burial-grounds was not always pecuniarily of advantage to parishes.
  MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he objected to the Vote on the ground that the colonists ought to be left to take care of their own affairs.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, as Buckingham House was Crown property, he wished to know what was the amount of ground-rent paid, and what period of the lease was unexpired?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he did not intend to make any comment upon the proposed Vote, because the country was in such a position that it must place necessarily very great reliance upon the Board of Admiralty. The navy had never disappointed the country, and the people naturally looked up to it for the accomplishment of important measures. He hoped, therefore, that some scheme was now in embryo which would redound to the honour and credit of that important arm of the service. He would point out, at the same time, that there was a strong feeling throughout the country in favour of testing the plan of Lord Dundonald.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he must defend the Vote, and he thought that if the hon. Member had acquainted himself with the facts of the case he would not have made the assertion he had.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  differed from the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire, and thought that the salaries of the inspectors ought not to be paid out of the public taxes.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he had felt it his duty to object to the Vote in former years, and should on the present occasion
take the sense of the Committee against it.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he considered the continuance of the proposed Vote in the Estimates a gross job. The plea upon which it was first brought forward, viz., distress in the Highlands and islands of Scotlands, no longer existed; and how places of commercial importance and wealth like Leith, Glasgow, and Greenock could have the face to come upon the public taxes for money to promote their fisheries he could not understand.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he would withdraw his Amendment, but he trusted, as there was a strong feeling against the Vote for the Episcopalian Clergy of Scotland, that the Government would take the subject into consideration.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the expenditure under the Vote now before the Committee had not for several years past exceeded 70,000 l l l l s d l
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, it was absurd to have such a Board. With regard to Highland Roads and Bridges, the Government ought to pledge themselves to consider the Vote, along with the preceding, with a view to its discontinuance.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to inquire how it was that the ambassador had two residences, when he used only to have one?
 MR. OTWAY  said, he would suggest, in order to make the matter clear, that the Vote should be taken in the following form:—5,000 l l Investigator.
 Mr. OTWAY  said, that on reference to the  Navy List
 MR. OTWAY  said, he thought that some assurance ought to be given by the Government as to the class of vessels which they intended to construct. A very large ship, the  Marlborough, 1596
 MR. OTWAY  said, he rose to move that the Chairman report progress, in order that he might have an opportunity of calling the attention of the Committee to a point which concerned every hon.
 1582
 MR. OTWAY  could only say that he had entered the House at a few minutes after six o'clock, and had not quitted his place; and that Vote must have been proposed in so quiet a tone that no one had heard it.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he hoped that his hon. Friend (Mr. F. Scully) would not
 1584 l
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he thought if the plans of Lord Dundonald were so tremendous as they were stated to be, the only reason why they were not adopted must be that they were more dangerous to the parties employing them than to the enemy against whom they were used. With respect to the particular Vote before the Committee, he could only say he was glad to find that the Government was providing a sufficient fleet of gunboats, for there was little doubt but that vessels of that class with steam power would hereafter play conspicuous parts in war. When the House was discussing the question of the limitation of the naval power of Russia by restricting her to so many line-of-battle ships and frigates, it had not occurred to any one that Russia might, under these circumstances, create a fleet of small vessels of the gunboat class, which would be sufficient to enable her to carry out her daring projects. His only fear was on account of the mortar vessels we had sent out, each of which, he imagined, would require a larger vessel to attend on her. It must be remembered that the Russian force of gunboats at Cronstadt was fully equal to our own, and therefore the admirals in the Baltic must be on their guard against any surprises which might be attempted by vessels of that class. Another subject which inspired him with some anxiety was the Russian squadron in the Pacific. The House was aware that last year we had failed in reaching a portion of that squadron, and he believed that now there were in the Pacific, under Russian colours, six ships and one steamer. These vessels had all kept together, and it was not impossible that,
 1592
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, a recommendation had been made by the Committee for a strict blockade of Cuba, and the First Lord of the Admiralty had promised fine things; but having obtained a return of the force employed in those waters for the suppression of the Slave Trade, he (Sir G. Pechell) found there were only a few a small steamers sailing about in shallow waters only, and of no practical use in suppressing the traffic in slaves. He wished the right hon. Gentleman to state whether the present Captain General of Cuba was as sincere in his desire and as favourable to the suppression of the Slave Trade as reported? He had been informed that a cargo of slaves had been landed at the Moro Port at a time when the Commodore on the station was
 1572
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he should move as an Amendment that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee. It was a question of great importance to the maritime population of the coasts of Suffolk, Kent, and Sussex, that no disadvantage should be inflicted upon English fishermen, as compared with those of France. The quarrels which took place in 1839, between the fishermen of the two countries made it necessary that the matter should become a subject of negotiation between the noble Lord now at the head of the Government and Marshal Soult, and a Bill was passed in 1843, by which three miles from the coast of England, and three miles from the coast of France, were fixed as the limits of the exclusive claim to the fisheries; but certain exceptions were made as to the oyster fisheries in the neighbourhood of Granville, and of the isles of Guernsey and Jersey. The effect of that Bill, however, would be to give up more than the French Government claimed, and to exclude English fishermen from a bank which had been discovered within the last four or five years outside the limits of each shore fishery, and, as it were, in the midst of the Channel. The complaints made by Count Walewski in 1852 were,
 1605
 SIR GEORGE TYLER  said, he wished to know if the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Admiralty considered the floating batteries which had been constructed to be efficient for the purpose for which they had been built, because if they were so, they might, he thought, be sent to places where they would prove of greater utility than they were at present?
 SIR GEORGE TYLER  said, that from what he had seen of the present Transport Board, and the mode in which it performed its business, he had no hesitation in saying that Captain Milne, who was at the head of that Board, was most admirably adapted
 1604
 SIR JAMES ANDERSON  said, he also must object to the whole country being taxed for expenses required in the improvement of a locality. What advantage was it to Scotland that a burial-ground in London should be closed?
 SIR JAMES ANDERSON  said, he fully agreed that an entire stop ought to be put to the present system. It was discreditable to Scotland to be receiving money in such a form, under the pretext of promoting manufacturies and fisheries.
 SIR JOHN DUCKWORTH  said, he believed that the objection of the noble Lord (the Marquess of Blandford) was to the principle of the Bill, and hence he thought that he ought to take a division upon the third reading, and not throw obstacles in the way of going into Committee.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he thought there was some reason in the objection that the evidence was not in the hands of hon. Members; but a postponement of the Committee for three days instead of three months would be sufficient to get out of the difficulty. He would move that the debate be now adjourned, in order to give an opportunity to hon. Members to have the evidence before them.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he would not press his Motion for the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. R. PHILLIMORE  said, he regarded the proposition as a wise, safe, and Christianlike experiment. If he thought that he was binding himself to vote 40,00 l
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he trusted that the House would pause before rejecting the Motion for going into Committee. He believed if the Motion were rejected, great agitation and discontent would be the result through the whole country.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that the Vote now under consideration was not the commencement of a new system, for, unfortunately, we had long been engaged in protecting the country against the Kafirs.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH : Certainly not; because, if they go into the Kafir country and take possession of the natives' land, they would be out of the British territory.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he was willing to admit that the Vote was an experiment for the purpose of trying whether by the expenditure of a comparatively small sum of money annually we might not be able to put an end to the Kafir wars and the great military expenditure in South Africa. He estimated that our military expenditure in that country amounted to between 400,000 l l 1580 l "The plan I propose to pursue with a view to the general adjustment of these questions is to attempt to gain an influence over all the tribes included between the present north-eastern boundary of this colony and Natal, by employing them upon public works which will tend to open up their country; by establishing institutions for the education of their children and the relief of their sick; by introducing among them institutions of a civil character suited to their present condition; and by these and other like means to attempt gradually to win them to civilisation and Christianity, and thus to change by degrees our at present unconquered, and apparently irreclaimable, foes into friends who may have common interests with ourselves." "To accomplish this will require a considerable immediate expenditure of money and some lengthened period of time; but I feel little doubt that, within eight or ten years from the present date, the work might be so far accomplished that no further assistance would be required from any extraneous source, and that Great Britain might look to be relieved shortly, to a great extent, from all further care and expense connected with this colony. In the meantime it is to the British Parliament alone that assistance can be looked for to carry out such a plan. Its cost, I estimate, will be for the present 45,000 l l l 1581
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that, in consequence of the very dilapidated state of the buildings in Downing Street, he had considered it his duty to request the architect to examine into the state of the public offices situated there. Acting upon the opinion of the architect, the Government
 1575
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that the building in which the business of the Foreign Office was at present conducted consisted of four small old houses in the worst possible condition. The floors were propped up, the houses were really in a very dangerous state, it was necessary to keep in the kitchens and cellars books which ought to be accessible in the upper rooms, and very great inconvenience was experienced every day in consequence of the dilapidated condition of the building. It was, therefore, a matter of emergency, that suitable accommodation should be provided for the Foreign Office. He believed also, that better accommodation was required by several other Public Offices. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bankes) seemed to imagine that one object of the plan
 1577 l l l
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he would make inquiries into the best means for a speedy distribution of medals.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that the Vote was necessary for carrying on the service of the Board, which could not otherwise be continued; but his hon. Friend the Secretary of the Treasury had announced that the subject would receive the attention of Government with a view to a change of system.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that his noble Friend the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs was in constant communication with the Spanish Government on the subject of the Slave Trade in Cuba, and was exerting all the influence of our own Government with that of Spain to induce them to give the most stringent orders to the Captain General of that Colony for the suppression of that traffic. When he was asked to answer for the sincerity of the Captain General of Cuba, he could not do that. He could only answer for the sincerity of Her Majesty's Government, who were doing all they could to suppress the traffic.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he thought the traffic of last year, as compared with that which used formerly to be carried on, had greatly diminished. If his right hon. Friend meant to institute a comparison between the last year and the year before, he was scarcely able to speak confidently on that point; he believed there had been a cargo or two more in the last year; but the present traffic in slaves was comparatively very small.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he would remind the hon. Member that the locality itself was put to great expense to provide a new burial-ground. No doubt Scotch burial-grounds would have to be inspected before they were closed, and then the services of the inspectors would be apparent.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that the inspectors whose salaries formed a portion of the Vote examined and reported upon the state of burial-grounds recommended to be closed, and also as to the applicability of such new ground as it was proposed should be devoted to the purposes of interment.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the right hon. Gentleman was aware that several of the Ordnance Departments had
 1585
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  replied, that
 1588 l. l. l.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that there could be no doubt but that the question was one with which hon. Gentlemen were well acquainted, and, as it appeared to him, it was also one upon which all could form a judgment, even without the assistance of the evidence taken before the Select Committee. The House had delegated an inquiry to a Committee; that Committee, chosen with much care, had come to a decision without much difference of opinion. Now, considering the necessity and simplicity of the subject—for it was by no means a matter of complexity—considering the lateness of the Session, and also bearing in mind the feeling of the country upon the question, he would submit that it would be the better course to go into Committee upon the Bill rather than wait for the evidence taken before the Select Committee; the more especially as the latter course might imperil the passing of the measure in the present Session of Parliament.
 MR. FERGUSON  said, he was not inclined to withdraw the Bill upon the plea suggested of the lateness of the Session, but, in the interest of the Church itself, he felt bound to ask the House to proceed with the measure.
 THE MARQUESS OF BLANDFORD  said, he agreed in the principle of the Bill, which was to increase small livings, and especially that the property belonging to deans and chapters in certain places should be applied to that object. That was a principle which he would like to see more extensively carried out than it had been, for, although he had always spoken in favour of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, he did not think they had paid that attention to local wants that they ought to have done. At the same time, whilst concurring in the principle of the Bill, he differed from the hon. Gentleman (the Member for Carlisle) as to the mode in which he proposed
 1610
 MR. FITZROY  said, that if the question were pressed to a division, it would place some of them in a position of great difficulty. So far as he was aware of the character of the Bill, he would be rather inclined to support the principle of it, but if he were called upon to say aye to the Motion for going into Committee, it seemed to him that he would be assisting to throw away the day, because they must know very well that, if they should go into Committee, the measure would give rise to long debates, and the time allotted for business on that day would be entirely absorbed. He would not wish, however, to negative the principle of the Bill, but thought it would be much better to have an opportunity of discussing the measure on a future occasion than to commit themselves then one way or the other. He should therefore move, as an Amendment, that the debate be now adjourned.
 MR. FERGUSON  said, he was satisfied with having affirmed the principle of the Bill, and would not then proceed further with it, as he considered that it would be useless to attempt to carry the measure through that Session.
 MR. COWPER  said, he would suggest that the debate should be adjourned, and that they should apply themselves to the consideration of business of more pressing importance. He considered that the principle of the Bill was not clearly defined, and that the machinery was not perfect.
 THE MARQUESS OF BLANDFORD  said, the Bill was prepared by the Commission, and it was proposed last year to invest the powers in the Church Building Commissioners. But the House had subsequently decided to limit the existence of that Commission to two years, which would expire on the 26th of next July. He put it to the Committee, therefore, whether it would be wise to confide the powers of the Bill to that body, and by so doing add another Act to the already complicated structure of English Ecclesiastical Law? The Bill was an experiment, and the proper course to take with it, was that which had been recommended by the Commissioners—namely, to limit the existence of its powers to a certain period, and then to deal with it as might be seen fit.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he wished to ask what arrangements had been made for the distribution of medals to the relatives of those who had died in the Crimea; and whether any arrangements had been made for a more rapid delivery of medals to those soldiers who had been discharged?
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, he did not think that the Amendment would effect its object. He did not think the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Pakington), had quite understood the purport of the Amendment. It was not to deprive the Church of any portion of its property, but to prevent a burden being levied on parishes for which they received no substantial benefit. As the payments in question, however, were not, strictly and technically speaking, "rates," he feared that the exact words of the Amendment would not attain the object in view; but undoubtedly the subject deserved consideration.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he would second the Amendment, and he thought it would be advisable to consider maturely the scheme proposed by the Ecclesiastical Commissioners before deciding upon a measure of this nature.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he objected to the Bill altogether, because he considered its whole foundation wrong. If national property were taken, it should be applied to national purposes. The churches were national property, and it was not a national purpose to transfer those which were taken down to other places, the inhabitants of which ought to erect their own churches and support their own clergy. He also objected to the bishops having
 1613
 Mr. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he had no objection that a clergyman with a small income should enjoy a good income; but he objected to transfer funds from one district in order to provide funds for another district. He thought if, on uniting parishes, that a surplus existed over, say 500 l.
 MR. FREWEN  said, the particular difficulty was this, that they could not levy one rate on two parishes for one church. There was no law to effect such a proceeding.
 MR. FREWEN  said, he had supported the second reading of the Bill, but hoped that further proceedings upon it would be postponed until the next Session of Parliament.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he hoped his hon. Friend who had charge of the Bill would divide on the question, and he would support him.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, the powers of twenty-eight Acts of Parliament were to be conferred on the Church Commissioners to carry out the Bill. The Bill had been read a second time without consideration; and it might be considered as a local surprise. He should oppose the Amendment to omit the Church Commissioners—the Amendment of the noble Lord (Marquess of Blandford); but, at the same time, he (Mr. Hadfield) was by no means clear that the principle of the Bill was one to be adopted. The Bill began at the wrong end, and his objection to it was not removed even by the exclusion of the Church Building Commissioners.
 MR. WILSON  said, that the House had that year voted the sum of 10,000 l. 1620
 MR. WILSON  said, that no expenses had yet been incurred by that gentleman.
 MR. WILSON  replied, that the duty of the travelling agent would be to proceed from place to place under the direction of the Trustees of the National Gallery, and to report to them upon any pictures which he thought were of value, acting subsequently upon such instructions as he might receive from them.
 MR. BRADY  said, he considered that the appointment of Mr. Mündler was an insult to the artists of this country.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that having disposed of the question of burial-grounds, the Committee now came to the point involving the sale of the site of churches; and he thought that, as the promoters of this Bill had given up the idea of disposing of grave-yards, the power of selling the sites of churches could not be retained, because every inch of ground within these churches was frequently occupied by vaults used for the purposes of interment.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the question raised by the hon. Member for Andover was of great importance. The Bill was to be worked by the voluntary action of the inhabitants, but it was a Bill for the whole country, and not confined to the City of London. In that view, he doubted whether, if a proposal were made to a parish near Birmingham or Manchester to give up 300 l.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he must complain that the provisions of the clause were ineffective to prevent the sale of grave-yards. The clause provided that no grave-yard should be sold separately from the site of the church, but no provision was inserted to prevent the sale of the site of the church and the grave-yard as well. The clause also provided that nothing in the Bill should legalise the sale of any church surrounded by a burial-ground; most of the churches, however, in the metropolis, abutted on the street, and therefore that provision was quite inoperative.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought the Church Building Commissioners were better for the purpose in view than the body proposed to be constituted by the Bill. He considered, therefore, that it would be better for the present to leave the matter in the hands of the Church Building Commissioners, and not create a new body on the eve of such a change, as was inevitable, in the Church Building Commission.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, considering that there were English artists who were perfectly capable of discharging the duties of
 1621
 MR. SPOONER  said, he wished to know whether the travelling agent was to have unlimited power with regard to the expenditure of the l0,000 l.
 MR. CUBITT  said, he thought it necessary that the person appointed to such a situation should be thoroughly acquainted with foreign languages, and that on that ground Mr. Mündler might be well fitted for the office.
 Mr. CUBITT  said, with the understanding that the matter would have consideration on the part of the right hon. Gentleman who had charge of the Bill, he would not press his Amendment, but he must protest against raising a fund to redeem this tax.
 MR. CUBITT,  said he could not discover when the payment in question was commuted in lieu of tithes. He was in the habit of seeing very small congregations in some of the City churches. He thought the object of the Bill was very good, and ought to be carried out; but in the present instance the effect was to draw from the pockets of the people of one district a sum of money which was to benefit a distant district.
 MR. CUBITT  said, he wished to move at the end of the clause to insert the following words: "Provided that no rates for the purposes aforesaid be continued to be levied on the inhabitants beyond what may suffice for the wants of the respective parishes when so united." He wished the Bill to work, and therefore he had proposed that addition. In the City it was proposed to take away three churches out of five, and it would be exceedingly objectionable to parishioners if called upon to pay church-rates for the support of
 1615
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he believed there would be a strong feeling of opposition to the Bill, unless there was a distinct provision that the dead should not be disturbed, and the church sites kept as open spaces.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he should move the reduction of the Vote by the amount of 300 l. l. s. l.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he wished to know whether the money was to be employed in reimbursing that gentleman for expenses he had already incurred?
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, the first step taken with regard to these medals was to obtain a list of the officers and soldiers entitled to receive them. Lists had accordingly been sent home from time to time, and those lists were referred to the Secretary of the Board of General Officers. When a person in England made application for his medal, all the Secretary had to do, was to ascertain that his name was on the list, and the medal was obtained without any difficulty whatever. With regard to those who were now in the Crimea, medals had been sent to the Commander in Chief to have them distributed there among the claimants. When applications were made at home for medals by the relatives of soldiers deceased, the first duty of the War Office was to ascertain that the claim was a good one, and the next that the person applying was entitled to
 1622
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Pakington would do well to defer to what seemed to be the feeling of the Committee on the subject. He would suggest that the clause should be so altered as to prevent the sale of sites of churches in which interments had taken place.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that with regard to the Amendment of the noble Marquess, the real question was, to which of the Commissions the proposed powers could be entrusted with the greatest advantage. The Church Building Commission was in some degree a volatile body,
 1614
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he trusted that his hon. Friend the Member for Southwark would not press his Amendment, because it was only a week ago that the House had decided, upon a division, that the Bill should be proceeded with. With regard to the principle of the measure, it appeared to be calculated to adapt the distribution of church accommodation to the altered circumstances of the times. He therefore asked the Committee to decide upon the question of reporting progress before discussing the Amendment to the clause.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he could only say, in answer to the appeal of the right hon. Gentleman, that his sole object was that he proposed powers should be vested in the hands of that Commission, which could most efficiently exercise them, and he could not approve of their being entrusted to an expiring body. He heard with great satisfaction the announcement of the right hon. Gentleman, that in the course of the next Session he intended to propose the revision of the Church Commission, with a view to the consolidation of its powers, which he regarded as of great importance, but he did not feel that that proposition bad any bearing on the immediate question. He thought the most advisable course was to adopt the proposition of the noble Marquess.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he could not consent to the proposal made by the hon. Member for Andover. The hon. Member spoke of church-rates, but the Amendment did not point at church-rates, but at a poundage-tax, which had existed from the time of Charles II., known as the Fire Act. The Committee would see that that payment had become a payment in lieu of tithes, and was as much Church property as tithes were. Because certain parishes were to be thrown together, the Church was to be plundered of its means, and the present opportunity was selected for the experiment. The Bill before the Committee carried out the principle that had been in operation in legislation for some years past, namely, to make the superfluities of one district provide for the deficiencies of another. He saw no reason why the City should be exempted from the operation of that policy, and he hoped, therefore, that his explanation would do away with the objection of the hon. Member.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, so far as any rate in the shape of church-rate was concerned, that would not be transferred. In a recent instance—where the Bishop of London made an appointment in one of the most important districts in London, he made it a condition—that no less than 600 l. 1616
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that the promoters of the Bill did not intend to interfere with existing burial-grounds, whether distinct from or attached to churches. He had no objection, therefore, to leave out the words in the clause "apart from the site of any church."
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he would consider whether a provision could not be inserted, on bringing up the Report, to meet reasonable objections. Also, whether some plan could not be devised to redeem those payments. He agreed that it would not be advisable to carry over church-rates to contiguous benefices.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  was afraid even such an alteration as that suggested would materially affect the means of carrying out the objects of the Bill; but looking to the feeling of the Committee, he thought it would be best to accede to the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he would remind the Committee that the Bill would be only operative by the consent of the parishioners, and that, in cases where interments had taken place in those churches, the remains and the monuments would be carefully and properly removed either by the friends or by the Commissioners. By the sale of those sites a large sum of money would be obtained to provide spiritual accommodation for thousands of persons elsewhere, and as this was no new proposal—as the sites of churches had been frequently disposed of for secular purposes and to accomplish works of utility, without Parliament ever interfering to prevent it—he hoped it would be acceded to in the present instance.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, his right hon. Friend had lost sight of the real facts of the case. The reason why the power was given to the parishes Commissioners was, that the Church Building Commission was about to expire in twelve months from that time.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he must appeal to the House, whether they were not throwing away their time by continuing the discussion.
 MR. R. PHILLIMORE  said, he regarded the Bill as purged of all the objections entertained against it in its former shape. There was then danger of its leading to the desecration of church-yards and the remains of the dead, and new powers of appeal to the Privy Council were also given, which did away with other grave objections. He could not see on what grounds the hon. Member for Southwark wished to defeat the measure, he should give his support to the proposition of the noble Marquess.
 MR. R. PHILLIMORE  said, he thought the principle proposed to be dealt with was too important to be discussed in an unpractical manner. At that advanced period of the Session it would be hopeless to expect the passing of the Bill, and, therefore, any lengthened discussion would be simple waste of time. He doubted, too, whether the Bill would effect the object which the hon. Member who had charge of it (Mr. Ferguson) had in view, as the suppression of a canonry would not lead to the distribution of its funds among the poorer parishes, but the tithes would be expended in the parishes from which they were derived. He should, therefore, move, as an Amendment, that the House should go into Committee that day three months.
 MR. R. PHILLIMORE  said, he wished to propose as an Amendment, to omit from the clause words which went to legalise the sale of the site of any church. The people would consent to part with the tithes and emoluments attaching to those churches, but they would not part with the burial-grounds or with the sites.
 MR. R. PHILLIMORE  said, the poundage paid in the City was as much in the nature of tithe as any other rent-charge paid in lieu, and was therefore the property of the Church. He felt, however, the force of the objections of the right hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat, and thought that some words might be introduced to meet that and similar cases on the bringing up of the Report. The Amendment of the hon. Member for Andover would not, he thought, effect the object he had in view.
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  said, that to show the necessity for the measure, he would call attention to the fact, that in the city of Carlisle there were four parishes, containing 26,000 inhabitants, whose spiritual interests were cared for by four incumbents and two curates. The aggregate of the incomes paid to those four incumbents were only 500 l. l. l. l. s. d. l.
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, he would recommend the withdrawal of
 1611
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Pakington), would be prepared with
 1617
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, he did not think that was a proper mode of putting the case, because the inhabitants of a particular parish might be desirous of adopting the other provisions of the Bill, although they were opposed to the sale of the site of their church. In his opinion it was impossible to draw a distinction between the sites of churches and burial-grounds, when both were equally used for the interment of the dead.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he should support the clause as it stood, for he
thought it sufficient that the option of adopting the provisions of the Bill rested with the parishioners.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he was desirous of making a statement relative to a question that was somewhat personal to himself, and, what was of much more importance, to the medical officers now serving in the Crimea. It would be in the recollection of the House that a letter appeared in  The Times The Times "Instead, then, of it being 'impossible,' as Mr. Stafford says, 'to exaggerate the eulogies due to such men,' who thus, 'notwithstanding the risk of their own professional advancement, bring under the notice of the country the sufferings of the poor patients committed to their charge,' the public will, we trust, form a different opinion of one who for the sake of notoriety could thus gratuitously harrow the feelings of friends at home by making such unfounded statements and wicked exaggerations as are contained in his letter." 1627 "That statements had been made before the Commission, less generally known than those made before the Sebastopol Committee, which, although they caused the hearts of those who read them to chill with horror, were highly honourable to the regimental surgeons who came forward, notwithstanding the risk to their own professional advancement, to bring under the notice of the country the sufferings of the poor patients committed to their charge. It was not possible to exaggerate the eulogies due to these men." "Sir,—In the course of my inspection of the field hospitals this day, in conjunction with my colleague, Dr. Laing, I was informed by one of the medical officers that several surgeons and commanding officers in the second division had been restrained from answering a series of questions addressed to them by me, by the following order, issued, I was told, by Major General Buller:— "'MEMO.—Officers commanding regiments, and medical officers doing duty with them, will be good enough not to furnish answers addressed to them upon the hospital arrangements, &c., by any persons, unless under authority proceeding from his lordship the F. M. Commanding the Forces in the Crimea. "'The above refers to civilians, and workmen, without such authority.' "I have to request that you will favour me by submitting this order to F. M., the Commander of the Forces, with the view of his removing this obstacle to the progress of our inquiry. 1628 animus 1629 The Times, "The wife of Colonel Lowth and myself, his brother, went on board the  Hansa, 1630
 COLONEL LINDSAY  said, he did not rise for the purpose of making any comparison between the relative merits of Lord George Paget and other officers who had not received the pension, but with the view of calling the attention of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for War to what appeared to him (Colonel Lindsay), and to many others out of doors, to be a somewhat anomalous state of things. The good-service pension was bestowed on officers as a reward for distinguished merit, and also with the view of increasing their pay, and it appeared to him and many others that, while they rewarded with those pensions parties who were nobly serving
 1633
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that the Under Secretary for War had mentioned Lord Paget as the senior officer, and it did not follow that that noble Lord might not be, as an officer, senior to the gallant officers mentioned, although upon the whole he had been less time in the army.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he agreed that it was invidious to institute in that House comparisons between various officers. It had been his fate to have to select officers of the navy to receive good-service pensions, and he found the task a difficult and a delicate one. He thought, from the speech of the hon. Under Secretary for War, that there appeared to be an intention to give good-service pensions solely for services performed
 1637
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he would admit that it was inconvenient to discuss the relative merits of officers in that House, but he must remind the noble Lord that the subject had not been mentioned there until it had been loudly asserted elsewhere that an improper distribution of rewards had been made. He believed Lord George Paget was entitled to his reward, but he thought the right hon. Member for Portsmouth (Sir F. Baring) had correctly stated the intention of Parliament granting those good-service pensions. The hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for War appeared to think that they were to be conferred only upon senior officers, but in the infantry certainly they had not been granted
 1638
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that fault had been found with the Commissioners for not having done more than they had done with the expurgated list prepared by them, but the answer to that was that the papers published by the Commissioners pointed out that it was necessarily an imperfect list and was merely a preliminary work. He was inclined to give those gentlemen the praise to which they were entitled for diligence, zeal, and knowledge, though as yet their labours were not sufficiently matured to form the basis for legislation.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : In the financial statement, Sir, which I had the honour to submit to the House in April last I stated that, in addition to the Estimates then prepared for the various military departments, I should propose an additional credit of 3,000,000 l. 1640
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could not exactly say what amount was drawn upon the Vote of last year, but thought that about 1,500,000 l.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  could not see the difficulty which the hon. Gentleman seemed to apprehend. The whole expenditure had been most carefully calculated, and was, he believed, most accurately stated. There was a certain amount voted for Army, Navy, and Ordnance purposes, and in addition, he now proposed, to take a general Vote of Credit for 3,000,000 l.
 MR. FRANCIS BARING  said, he begged to explain, with reference to some statements which had been made, that he (Sir F. Baring) did on a former occasion object to the transfer of the Commissariat expenditure from the Treasury to the War Department; on the contrary, he approved it, but what he did object to was | the Minute making that transfer—as he thought that it had not been sufficiently considered or matured. The Under Secretary for War appeared to think that now everything with regard to the war expenditure would go on smoothly—but if it did, things must be greatly altered from what they were when he (Sir F. Baring) held office in the Treasury. Then he was sorry to say there was such an accumulation of both war and Commissariat accounts that auditing them was out of the question; so by a kind of compromise they were got rid of. He would suggest to the hon. Under Secretary for War that he should make inquiries with regard to the transfer and settlement of the Commissariat accounts, with the view of preventing their accumulation and the difficulties which would otherwise arise. The Under Secretary for War appeared to think that that
 1650
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he wished to know what arrangements had been made with respect to the supply of coffee to the troops abroad? He observed that before the Sebastopol Committee the blame for supplying the troops with raw whole coffee was cast by Sir Charles Trevelyan upon the Quarter-master General in the Crimea, an officer who he (Colonel North) believed had done everything in his power to contribute to the wellbeing of the army. Sir Charles Trevelyan, when asked whether applications for roasted coffee were not made before the army left Varna, said, he did not recollect any complaints being made, and added that all pains were taken at home to ascertain whether it would be
 1651 1652
 COLONEL NORTH  said, Sir Charles Trevelyan declared he had taken all means to ascertain the best mode of sending out coffee. It appeared from a return that coffee was sent on the 7th of November roasted, but not ground. Why had not the Treasury made inquiries of Messrs. Collier?
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he thought it was the duty of the Government to make inquiries of every person who was competent to give them information.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he considered that Parliament ought not to separate until satisfactory assurances were given by the Government that the war should be prosecuted with energy, and that our army would be properly supplied with those necessaries upon which military success depended. Last year the Ministry made liberal promises on that head, and yet very little had been done to realise them even up to the present moment. Now that it was almost certain our
 1654 l. l.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that Colonel Beatson, a British officer, who had been lately in command of a corps of Bashibazouks, was reported in the papers of that day to have been murdered by his own men. That was the result of endeavouring to enrol irregular forces, by which also the money of the country was wasted. According to a convention with England, the Turkish Government had separated a portion of its army, and placed it under General Vivian. That corps must prove inefficient under English officers; and it would be much better that the men should be sent to Kars under the control of their own Government. While we were lavishing enormous sums in paying Turkish troops and in levying a Foreign Legion, the services of which would yield no corresponding advantage, our own cavalry was neglected and left inefficient from the want of dismounted men. Private intelligence
 1655
 MR. PERCY  said, he felt himself called upon to condemn the regulations of the hospital at Scutari, which had caused the loss of many gallant lives. Among other regulations every soldier was bound to find his own knife and fork when he went into hospital, but at Scutari 500 men were without those articles. That, and other arrangements with regard to fuel, ought to be abolished.
 MR. BRAMLEY-MOORE  said, he would suggest that the cost of freight in all such cases should be taken from the amount of specie shipped.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he must complain that they had to discuss a very important Vote without having on the table copies of the Order in Council appointing a fourth Secretary of State, and separating the Colonial from the War Department. No answer had been given by the Government to the important questions that had been put to them from both sides of the House, and the remarks of the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams) as to the increased pay of the troops had been left unnoticed. The Secretary for the Treasury had contradicted the right hon. Member for Portsmouth. (Sir F. Baring), but the official papers bore out the right hon. Baronet's statement. The Committee ought to know what arrangement the Government proposed with respect to the Commissariat officers who felt themselves aggrieved; and it should also be told who was the actual head of that department. Those and other matters had been left without explanation, and he must protest against that mode of dealing with so important a subject.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  replied, that the Report of the Commission alluded to by the right hon. Baronet had not yet been received. With regard to the suspicion which the right hon. Baronet said existed as to the cause of the delay, he presumed that it was not directed against the office over which he (Mr. V. Smith) had the honour to preside, or against the Court of Directors. [Sir J. PAKINGTON: No, no!] All they could do was to issue the order appointing the Commission, and to direct that the Report should be made and forwarded as soon as possible. When he entered upon the office of President of the Board of Control, he wrote to Lord Dalhousie to say that he thought the Report ought to have been sent before that time, and that he believed those who took an interest in the subject were anxiously expecting it. By the last mail he received a private letter from that noble Lord, expressing his regret at the delay which had occurred, and informing him that the Commission were then actively employed in preparing their Report, and he hoped soon to be able to forward it. He did not know that it had arrived by the mail which had just come in, but he feared it had not. With regard to his making any promise
 1660
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that on the 22nd of May a Bill had been brought into the House and read a first time, entitled the Ordnance Board Bill, and it was proposed to proceed with it immediately; but as the Bill was not printed, he proposed that some delay should take place in proceeding with it. Since the 22nd of May, he had often urged that some statement of the details of the measure, which went to the entire abolition of the Board of Ordnance, might be
 1668 "I can say, from my own experience, having for many years held the office of Secretary of War and Secretary of State for the War Department, that the urgency of some reform in the constitution of those departments is much greater than is generally supposed. If this were the proper time I for it, I could lay before your Lordships cases of mismanagement and of evils which have existed for the last fifty years, directly traceable to this vicious organisation of these departments; and I could adduce facts proving those evils, which, I think, would astonish your Lordships and the country. I hope, therefore, this most important subject has already occupied the attention of Her Majesty's Government, and that they will be prepared either to propose to Parliament, or to adopt by the authority of the Crown, and communicate to Parliament—for much may, I believe, be done by the authority of the Crown—that in one way or the other they will lose no time in introducing an amended organisation of these departments. If they do not, I venture to predict, from the want of unity in the management of departments closely connected with each other, and the dilatory and cumbrous arrangements for the transaction of business, that before we have been many months engaged in serious war, it will assuredly lead to some calamitous results."—[3  Hansard, 1669 "I am of opinion that the House of Commons would expect, after six or seven months of deliberation, a final arrangement of the War Department." "Your Committee can find no trace of these deliberations, and any evils that may have resulted from delay in such arrangements are therefore very properly laid to the charge of the Cabinet." 1670 "The relation of the Secretary at War with the Commander in Chief is really that of control or check upon the expenditure of the army. At present the Secretary-ship at War is not abolished, but it is held simultaneously with the Secretaryship of State by Lord Panmure; and in many Acts of Parliament duties are imposed upon the Secretary at War which, unless those Acts are repealed, could not be performed at all." "If any extravagant expenditure was incurred by the order of the Secretary of State, it would be the duty of the Secretary at War to appeal to the Treasury to decide between them." "We propose, therefore, to try another mode which, though entirely novel in the British army, is one from which we anticipate considerable success. The plan is this, that to all soldiers who shall be engaged in the field of action before the enemy—and this will, of course, apply at once to the army in the Crimea—double pay shall be given. I propose that 1 s. 1671 Hansard, l., "it was one of the great features of this plan that the promised addition to the soldier's pay was to be given only to those engaged in actual war, or to those at present serving in the Crimea. Since he made that announcement, he had been informed by a great many military officers, to whose opinions he felt bound to listen, that unless the soldier got the pay into his own hands, the plan would not be likely to succeed. In the face of these representations, he did not think it would be right or proper for him to ask the nation to risk entering upon so great an expenditure, for the purpose of trying a plan which he was told by experienced officers, would perhaps fail to produce the result intended. But, on the other hand, putting at once into the soldier's hands an amount of pay increased to the extent which he had named, would, in his opinion, go far to affect the soldier's discipline; if he had too much money, he might find it pleasing, and perhaps convenient, to incur a breach of discipline. He (Lord Panmure) had, therefore, so far altered the scheme that, instead of investing a shilling a day for the soldier's benefit at a distant period, he now proposed immediately to put the additional sum of sixpence a day into the hands of the soldier as an extraordinary field allowance, precisely in the same way in which extraordinary field allowances were now paid to the officers. He proposed, instead of putting it into the savings-bank, to give the soldier the benefit of an arrangement which existed in the navy, and which was voluntary on the part of the men themselves, but encouraged by their officers; and to enable the soldier to allot any part of that sixpence to his family, instead of receiving it himself." [3  Hansard, s., d., 1672 1673
 CAPTAIN LEICESTER VERNON  said, the military and civil services were so mixed—he had almost said fused together—in the Orders in Council as to render it all but unintelligible, and it was very evident that the framer of the Order was utterly ignorant of the nature of many of the duties to which it referred. It appeared to him that at the very outset the framer had fallen into an error when he represented the Clerk of the Ordnance as if he had only civil duties to perform, whereas he had important military duties to discharge. The next office was that of Inspector General of Fortifications, held by Sir John Burgoyne, and among the duties which he had to perform were those of the preservation and maintenance of the fabric of all existing fortresses and military buildings, the examination of all plans and projects for fortifications, barracks, and other military works, and the preparation of specifications and estimates of all works connected with fortifications or military buildings. Yet those were called civil duties. Why, the duties performed by Sir J. Burgoyne before Sebastopol might as well be called civil duties. And here he begged permission to make an observation with reference to Sir John Burgoyne's services at Sebastopol. The hon. Member for Cambridge (Mr. S. Adair) the other evening stated that Sir John Burgoyne had been deceived as to the strength of Sebastopol; but he had it from that gallant Officer himself that that observation of the hon. Member's was not a correct statement of his opinion. What he said in his evidence was, that he found the place stronger than he had from previous impressions been led to believe, and that he was not of opinion it would have resisted so strongly had the course been adopted which he wished to see pursued, but still he had no doubts but that it would be taken. It might become his (Captain Vernon's) duty at some future period to show the House that that Officer had acted in the most energetic and enterprising manner. On that matter the press had for a time been misled, but it now fully admitted the great and important services rendered by Sir John Burgoyne. The next office laid down in the Order in Council was that of the Deputy Inspector General of Fortifications. Then there were two Assistant Deputy Inspector Generals, at 500 l. 1676 l. 1677
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he must confess that, even after the statement of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Monsell), he was very much at a loss to understand what were the real intentions of the Government. The proposed changes, he believed, were quite contrary to the opinions of the highest military authorities, and it was known that the late Lord Raglan entirely disapproved of them. He (Colonel Dunne) wished to know whether the accounts of the regiment of artillery were to be transferred to the War Department in the same way as the accounts of the rest of the army? Were the arming and clothing of the troops to be placed on the same footing as the rest of the army? He saw that the hon. Gentleman the Clerk of the Ordnance had relieved himself of many of his duties, and that he had placed himself as a general superintendent over all the departments which he called civil, but which he (Colonel Dunne) said in reality were purely military in their natures. That was a most erroneous and inconvenient course, because now there would be a man at the head of those departments who would be totally ignorant of all the details. The duties of that officer were to prepare annually the estimates for Parliament, and generally to superintend and control all the money arrangements connected with the department. Those duties were now transferred to the Inspector of Fortifications. To that officer was also transferred the care of the barracks—a thing with which he had nothing to do. Changes equally questionable were made in reference to the department of contracts, and also in reference to the clothing. There was now no Board at all, but only a director of clothing; and to whomsoever the blame was to be attached, he (Colonel Dunne) had never seen worse clothing than that now furnished to our soldiers. He thought that there ought to be some board to decide upon that clothing with which the soldier could go comfortably into the field. But was the director solely to decide? He was glad that a most gallant officer, who had distinguished himself at Alma, had received that appointment; but was he alone to decide? [Mr.
 1678
 COLONEL DUNNE : Improvements were every day suggested, and he wished the soldier to obtain the benefit of those improvements. There should, therefore, be some general system of inspection; but that had altogether been left out. He did not think that they could get a proper Director of Stores for 500 l.
 COLONEL DUNNE : he must also complain of the mischievous disposition of civilians who were not capable of forming a judgment on professional matters. The Government had taken great credit for the separation of the management of the laboratory from the manufacture of gunpowder. He (Colonel Dunne) could not approve of that arrangement. He was perfectly certain that no change had been proposed which would be for the better. The assistants in the different departments were, he supposed, to be abolished, and thus many young officers would be deprived of appointments which they had held with benefit to the service. There was also to be an alteration in the composition of the scientific Committee at Woolwich, by the introduction of a great number of gentlemen distinguished in science, but whom the country could not sufficiently reward to induce them to give exclusive attention to the different branches of the artillery service. He was afraid that the system about to be established would be pernicious and inconvenient. He had always heard that in 1803, the Ordnance Department was in as bad a state as that to which it had now been brought by the hon. Member for Limerick; but that in 1815, so efficiently was that department managed that our military weapons and equipments were the most perfect in Europe. And how was that improvement effected? Not by placing civilians over the department, but by entrusting its management to military men. By placing properly qualified military men, and not civilians or mere political friends over the Ordnance Depart-
 1679
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he shared the regrets of the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams), in reference to the results of the recent arrangements. The clothing he was certain could be done much cheaper than it was now done. The clothing supplied to the soldiers of the French army was not only cheaper, but it was much better. If there was any profession in the world in which central control and individual responsibility were desirable, it was the military profession. It was most injurious to the service to put civilians into the military offices; and he had no hesitation in saying that in the recent changes the best men had not been put into the best places. They were not at all acquainted with the subordination of the army, and they were really not the beat men for the performance of the duties that were to be performed.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, the militia were clothed by the Ordnance; and certainly he had never seen such abominable red baize as that of which the men's uniforms were made.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he must take exception to a Vote of 300 l. l. l.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he would admit that that might, perhaps, be a sufficient justification of the Vote, but he hoped that the subject would be a little more considered next year.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he was quite sure that neither of his hon. Friends was aware of the real object and character of the Vote. He would not advert now to the distance of the property from the metropolis, because that was a point which they must assume had been disposed of satisfactorily at the time when the land was purchased. The hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) had alluded to the pledge given by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) and repeated by the Government of Lord Aberdeen, that the House of Commons should be made fully cognisant of the intentions of the Government, and should have an opportunity of passing its judgment upon the plans proposed before any expenditure was entered into; and he appeared to think that the Vote now proposed was more or less a departure from that pledge. To him (Mr. Gladstone), on the contrary, it seemed that the Vote was proposed in perfect consistency with, and, even he would add, in fulfilment of that pledge. It was in contemplation to cover the land at Kensington-gore (the extent of which had been considerably understated at sixty acres) with buildings devoted to purposes for which the land was originally bought. How much would it cost to erect such buildings? Undoubtedly an enormous sum of money. The utmost liberality on the part of the House of Commons would not supply sufficient funds to accomplish the whole design within a considerable number of years, and he ventured to say that very few of those present would live to see that site fully covered, and the great design of the Commission entirely accomplished. So strongly did he feel on the subject that, as Chancellor of the Exchequer, he had urged upon the Commission that it would be exceedingly wise to devise some means for the profitable occupation of a portion of the ground during the long interval which must elapse before the whole could be covered.
 1686 l. l. l. l., l. l., "Irrespective of its simplicity and cheapness, and the remarkable facility with which it can be constructed, it enjoys the great advantage, in a pecuniary point of view, of being designed of a
 1687
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that as the House was anxious to go into a Committee of Ways and Means, he trusted that the second reading of the Bill now before them, would be agreed to without discussion, on the understanding that the debate on the principle and details of the measure would be taken upon the Motion to go into Committee. Though there were parts of the Bill to which many hon. Gentlemen entertained serious objection, there were other parts which, it was important for the continuance and well working of the Commission, should be passed that Session.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Mr. Fitzroy, not with standing the advanced hour of the night, I trust the Committee will allow me to explain the Resolutions which I am about to put into your hands, seeing that to-morrow will be occupied with a debate on another subject. It would not be convenient that the Resolutions should be brought under the notice of the House on Saturday, and if they were postponed until Monday the Session would be lengthened more than we wish to see it. If the Committee will allow me to proceed, I hope to be able, in a short time, to conclude the statement that I have now to make. In the financial statement of the year made in April last I estimated the entire receipts of the revenue for the year ending April next at 86,339,000 l. l., 1698 l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l., 1699 l. l. l. l. l. l.; l.; l. l. l., l., l., l. l., l., l., l., 1700 l., l. l., l., l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l., l. l. 1701 l. l., l., l. l. l., l. l. l. l.; l.; 1702 l.; l. l.; l.; l. l. 
 1. "That, towards making good the Supply granted to Her Majesty, the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury be authorised to raise any sum of money, not exceeding Seven Millions sterling, by the issue of Exchequer Bills." 2. "That in case the said Exchequer Bills be not issued for the full sum of 7,000,000 l., l. l. 3. "That such Exchequer Bonds, if issued, shall be paid off at par at the expiration of any period not exceeding six years from the date of such Bonds." 4. "That the Interest of all such Exchequer Bonds shall be payable half yearly, and shall be charged upon and issued out of the Consolidated Fund of the United Kingdom, or the growing produce thereof." 5. "That, towards making good the Supply
 1703 l. s. d., 6. "That, towards making good the Supply granted to Her Majesty, the sum of 26,006,352 l. s. d.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I have followed the statement of my right hon. Friend with much interest, and there is nothing in that statement to which I feel it my duty to object. Undoubtedly the variations between the Estimate and the expenditure upon the different branches of the military service are very considerable, but they are on the whole variations which we had every reason to anticipate. The result as regards the army is more satisfactory than as regards the navy and Ordnance, owing, however, to causes which are not perhaps altogether satisfactory. On the whole, I do not see that we have any right to complain of the calculations of my right hon. Friend with regard to expenditure. With regard to the mode in which he proposes to provide for that expenditure, I quite agree with him that the Committee may well feel disheartened at the great and sudden extension of the unfunded debt. Considering that debt as made up of Exchequer bills and Exchequer bonds, the change which has been effected in it has been very rapid, for only two years ago it stood at 13,000,000 l., l., l. 1704 l., l. l. 1705 l. 1706
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I did not undertake, upon the occasion of a Motion of my hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth (Mr. Williams), to look into the question to which my right hon. Friend has just adverted. I can assure him that I have not lost sight of the subject, but I am afraid, although it may be desirable on grounds of equity and justice to extend the same rule to corporations as to the owners of other property, that I cannot reasonably expect any large amount of revenue from this source. With reference to the subject of taxation, I can only say that the balance between taxation and loans had not, of course, escaped my attention when I submitted these Resolutions to the Committee, but the reason which principally guided me in making these propositions, and in not imposing any additional taxation, was the difficulty I should have had in realizing such new taxation within a limited period. Certain taxes are meant to be collected at the time when the Resolution respecting them is passed, but the period of collection of many others is postponed for six months, and it was important in making the propositions which I have laid before the Committee with respect to the remaining eight months of the year to provide Ways and Means which could be realised without delay. With reference to my hon. Friend's statements as to the unproductiveness of our indirect taxation, I must say that his apprehension appears from the figures which have been supplied to me not to be altogether well founded. The produce of the Customs during the last four months has been 7,599,000 l.; l.; l., l.,
 MR.GLADSTONE : My observations applied quite as much to the Excise duties as to the Customs. I am afraid, however, that my right hon. Friend forgets that during the last fortnight—even since these Supplementary Estimates were laid on the table—people have had before them the prospect of the imposition of new import duties, and that, consequently, with a view of anticipating these as far as possible, a large amount of import duties has been
 1707
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The precise promise made to the contractors was, that no additional loan of the same nature as the loan then made—by an addition to the funded debt—should be contracted until the end of the present year. An express reservation was made with regard to any foreign loans which might be brought into the market. It was also stated that Exchequer Bills would be issued, and I believe the precise amount
 1708 l., l.,
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I wish, Sir, to guard myself against the supposition that I entered into any loose or vague engagement. The answer I gave was carefully considered beforehand, after as precise a calculation of the wants of the Government and the means of borrowing money as the nature of the war would permit. It has always been the custom for those who engage to furnish a loan to ask the Government what are their intentions with respect to contracting any future loans, while the instalments of the loan then under discussion remain unpaid; and there has generally been an understanding of some sort entered into on the subject. I gave the most distinct answer I could consistently with the circumstances
 1709
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he felt bound to give in his adherence to what had fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer with regard to his engagement with the contractors for the loan. No doubt it would be very desirable, if possible, to avoid giving any sort of pledge tending to tie the hands of the Government; but if such a refusal involved the necessity of giving a higher price for the loan, then the doctrine of convenience must prevail, and that course adopted which was plainly most advantageous to the public.
 MR. CARD WELL  said, he did not believe that the hon. Member for Paisley (Mr. Hastie) intended to divide the House; and, after the determination to pass the Bill which had been expressed, he thought the hon. Member exercised a wise discretion. He only wished that he could concur with the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. T. Hankey) in thinking that the Bill would be a valuable contribution to our system of commercial law. But, on the contrary, he believed it would tend to multiply a class of Companies in which the shareholders were always to be found when there were dividends to receive, but who, when things went wrong, would disappear, and nothing be heard of them. Under the Bill as it now stood there was no safeguard against that state of things, which might,  ad libitum, 1711
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he fully agreed that nothing but a strong necessity justified the passing of a Bill of that nature. On looking over the calendars at the assizes, he found that the number of prisoners for trial was extremely small, and that the offences were not of a character to call for a Bill only applicable to a country in a chronic state of outrage. Neither was it, he thought, respectful to the House that a Bill of such a class should be proposed without any statement by the Government.
 MR. DEVERE  said, that although the right hon. Secretary for Ireland admitted the general tranquillity of Ireland, the preamble of the Bill distinctly stated that the prevalence of crime and outrage in Ireland called for strong measures of repression. He (Mr. De Vere) contended that the country was not in a state to call for the continuation of such a stigma upon
 1714
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, he could only express a hope that the new system would work as well as the old, and that it would produce results equally creditable to the service.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he must remind the hon. Gentleman that the proposal
 1691
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he was surprised at the language of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxford (Mr. Card-well), because he thought the right hon. Gentleman was favourable to the principle of the Bill. The right hon. Gentleman said there was no safeguard provided against a fraud such as he had indicated. But, in reply, he would say such a Company as that described was not likely to get a great deal of credit in the country. He denied the assertion that there were no safeguards in the Bill. If the Act was properly complied with, and Joint-stock Companies compelled to make proper returns, that class of frauds referred to would be done away with. Other hon. Members had expressed a hope that the Bill would receive another kind of attention from the other House; but he would express his thanks for the general support on both sides that bad been given to the Bill, and he had no doubt with that support the Bill would go through the House and meet with a favourable reception in another place.
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  said, he did not rise to object to the Vote, as he looked upon it as an experiment. The only objection to the site was its position, and if that did not prevent people from resorting to it, that objection would be answered.
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  said, that with reference to the item of 15,000 l.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he fully agreed with the right hon. Member for Portsmouth (Sir F. Baring) that good-service pensions should be awarded for good and long service, and he would take that opportunity of adverting to the hard case of sergeants who, on promotion, were called upon to forego their good-conduct pay.
 MR. ARCHIBALD HASTIE  said, he rose to oppose the measure, which he looked upon as one of the worst that had been brought under the notice of the House of Commons for many years. He denied that the measure was based upon the principle of free trade. It was as its title declared, a Bill for limited liability, and anything that was limited could not be
 1710
 MR. DISRAELI  said, it would be unfair in the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Major Reed) to go to a division. The Motion as it stood was really a vote of want of confidence in the Government, and it was not fair at the end of the Session that the great Conservative party should be entrapped into a vote of want of confidence by him. The hon. and gallant Gentleman was inclined to make concessions to the noble Lord, and seemed satisfied with the declaration of the noble Lord that he intended to do that which, under the peculiar circumstances, he thought best for the nation. Really the hon. and gallant Gentleman was too much excited by his success in that House. But a little time ago he brought forward a Motion pledging the Government of the noble Lord to a reform of Parliament. Now, that would seem to have been enough for one Session. And, therefore, it was too much to ask the Government of the noble Lord that Parliament should be called precipitately together. The hon. and gallant Gentleman, however, had tonight made an admission which proved to him (Mr. Disraeli) that the Government was falling more rapidly into decay than even was generally imagined, for the hon. and gallant Gentleman had acknowledged that the Government were but human.
 1697 "Arise! awake! or be for ever fallen."
 MR. DISRAELI  If the Government are satisfied that they have kept their engagements with the contractors I shall be the last person in this House to raise any objection. I must say, however, that nothing can be more impolitic than that the organ of the Government should hold out these loose anticipations, and should enter into engagements which he cannot be sure of strictly fulfilling. It would in my opinion have been much better that he should have negotiated the loan without any conditions of this sort—without attempting to make a better bargain by holding out vague promises which are liable to misinterpretation. Though I am perfectly willing to believe that the right hon. Gentleman has fulfilled his engagement, still he must admit that there has been an idea entertained, and with considerable foundation too, that he had entered into a contract such as I have stated.
 MR. DISRAELI : It is not my intention, Sir, on the present occasion, to make any remarks on the discrepancy between the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) Estimates and the actual expenditure, nor do I think it convenient now to enter into any discussion as to the principles on which his financial system should be based. We have seen enough already to show us that the idea of being able to meet the expenses of the year, in a time of war, out of the revenue of the year, without borrowing, is rather a delusion. Besides a loan of 16,000,000 l. l., l., l., l.,
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that the pledge he had given had reference to the erection of a permanent building, and what he wished to convey to the Committee was, that he would never sanction the erection of a permanent building without the whole scheme being laid before Parliament; but that pledge did not refer to a proposition for a temporary building like the one under consideration.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that as a Member of the Government that originally proposed the purchase of the property, he felt that there was not the slightest foundation for the rumours referred to by his hon. Friend (Mr. Spooner). He referred to his (Mr. Disraeli) having described the investment as a desirable purchase and he could assure his hon. Friend that if a desirable purchase was the purchase of an article that you could sell for more than you gave for it, that was a definition which applied to the Kensington-gore estate. If it were the desire to sell the estate they could obtain a much more considerable sum than they originally gave for it. His hon. Friend had stated that there was an engagement that no commencement of building should take place without the matter being fully before the House; and he could assure his hon. Friend that that engagement had been rigidly kept. His hon. Friend and also the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Wil-
 1688 l., l. l. 1689
 MR. DISRAELI  said, there were objections affecting the principle of the Bill which ought to be discussed before it was read a second time.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford in his observations on the Vote in question. They had never yet pretended to allow any adequate remuneration for the services of private secretaries; and the proposed Vote might form a precedent for a large increase in the salaries of those gentlemen.
 MR. OLIVEIRA  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he begged to express his satisfaction at the explanation that had been made by the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR.HORSMAN  said, he had intended to make a statement with respect to the measure. He very gladly and heartily bore his testimony to the tranquil state of Ireland. He believed no country in the world had made a greater progress in the last few years; but the Government were in this position, that there were less troops in Ireland than at any former period, and that they had been advised that, under all the circumstances of the case, this exceptional kind of legislation might be preserved in a modified form. With that view they proposed to withdraw the proclamation from all districts in which tranquillity prevailed, and he hoped that, by next Session, the Bill would be withdrawn altogether.
 MR. FRENCH  said, that perhaps the hon. Gentleman could at the same time give some information in regard to the Report of the Commission appointed by Lord Raglan to inquire into the merits of Captain Disney's projectile?
 MR. WINN KNIGHT  said, he objected to the Bill being read a second time that night. The Bill established a cen-
 1692
 MR. GLYN  said, when the Bill was first committed, there were some restrictions which mitigated the evils incidental to such a Bill, but those restrictions had since been removed. A Company could now start without capital. The amount of the shares was reduced, and the clause was rejected by which additional liability was to attach to contributors and shareholders. The machinery for winding up was also removed from the Bill. The subject, he considered, was of such importance to the commercial body—affecting as it did such important changes, and being likely to produce such pernicious effects—that he trusted the question would have full attention when it reached the other House.
 MR. GLYN  said, he was glad to hear that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed to take power to issue Exchequer bonds, which were become a more favourite species of security than the Exchequer bills, especially since the latter had lost the great advantage of being receivable in payment of Government duties. He regretted that the right hon. Gentleman, when he raised his loan of 16,000,000 l., l.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he should support the Bill. It was a protection to the lower class of farmers, and they would be extremely sorry to find that it was not re-enacted. The better course would have been to have made it perpetual at first, instead of it being necessary to continue it from year to year.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, the only object of the hon. Member who originated the discussion was to obtain an explanation upon a matter which had been very much discussed out of doors. The noble Lord at the Head of the Government said, that nineteen out of twenty would be dissatisfied with the selection of the twentieth candidate for honours, but that proved the necessity for a scrutiny into those appointments; for if nineteen men out of twenty were necessarily passed over it would be an additional and unnecessary mortification for them to find that their claims had been passed over in favour of any but the best qualified of their competitors. He would also suggest that the services for which a good-service pension was awarded should be announced in the  Gazette.
 MR. BELL  said, he was prepared to assent to the Vote on the clear understanding that by so doing he would not be bound to further proceedings hereafter. He had heard a rumour that a plan had been prepared for the permanent occupation of the ground in question, and he was anxious to know whether, before any permanent building was erected, full and ample notice would be given the House?
 MR. WILSON  said, he must complain of the mode in which the subject had been brought before the House by the hon. and gallant Member who had last addressed them. It was true that the hon. and gallant Gentleman had had a notice on the paper for a very long time, and he (Mr. Wilson) had come down every night to meet it, but whenever it was called—which necessarily occurred late at night—the hon. and gallant Gentleman was not in his place to move it. [Colonel NORTH said, he did not believe there had been a night when he was absent.] The hon. and gallant Gentleman at least did not bring on his Motion, and therefore, for the
 1653 nil.
 MR. WILSON  said, he could not see why Sir Charles Trevelyan should apply to Messrs. Collier. Those Gentlemen only tendered their assistence on the 15th of December, while early in November the Treasury had issued an order for only roasted coffee to be sent out.
 MR. WILSON  said, that there could be no doubt that the mode of conducting business had been greatly altered since the right hon. Baronet was at the Treasury. There was at that time a large Colonial expenditure by the Imperial Government, which was checked exclusively by the Commissariat officers, but that system had been entirely changed, and the expenditure in the Colonies had been reduced to a very small sum. The Treasury was unable to control all descriptions of expenditure, for the heads of the Admiralty and other departments were responsible to the House for the expenditure of money, and the only check upon the expenditure of the Commissariat Department abroad was the Board of Audit. The control of the purely financial department of the Commissariat chest rested entirely with the Treasury. He could not agree with the right hon. Baronet that any plan had been suggested which was preferable to that laid down in the Treasury Minute with respect to the transfer of the Commissariat from the Treasury to the War Department.
 MR. BRADY  said, that it was a very unconstitutional course to adopt such a measure, seeing that the people of Ireland were most loyal, he should therefore vote for the postponement of the second reading. It would create a feeling of discontent which did not now exist, and a grave responsibility rested upon the Government in pressing the Bill upon the House at the present time.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that had the case been a clear one neither the right hon. Gentleman near him (Mr. Gladstone) nor the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken would have been obliged to expend so many words upon it. The Committee were about to be led into a trap from which there would afterwards be no escape. He understood that the land which cost 350,000 l. l. 1690 l. l. l. l. l., l.
 MR. MASTERMAN  said, if three or four people put a few pounds together they became a Company under the proposed Bill, and were in a situation to do incalculable mischief to the fair trader. He sincerely regretted the threats held out by the noble Lord at the head of the Government. He hoped the subject would
 1712
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he wished to put a question to the hon. Gentleman the Clerk of the Ordnance with respect to a projectile which had been invented some nine months ago, and which the hon. Gentleman
 1657
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, the hon. Gentleman had not answered his question, whether it was true that the experimental shells acquired, at similar elevations, upwards of 1,000 yards more effective range than the solid shot of the service with a full charge, and that the average deflection of the experimental shell was only fourteen yards in that increased distance, while that of the service shot at the smaller range was forty-seven yards?
 MR. HENLEY : But you hoped to raise some, and the charge for them might as well have been foreseen in the month of February as now. It was strange to say that Government should have to ascertain the amount of two months' actual expenditure, before they could state what
 1648 l. 1649
 MR. HENLEY  said, the statement which had just been made by the hon. Gentleman was one which was not often equalled in interest, if, indeed, in importance, by any statement made in that House. He would not dwell upon the check that was said would be exercised over the Commissariat accounts, because he did not think much could be made out of that; nor did he understand from the conversation which passed the other night that any great objection had been urged against the War Department having the management of the Commissariat. But what was most to be wondered at, in his opinion, was, that the Government should never have looked sufficiently far before them as to thoroughly understand the full extent of the matters they would have to deal with. They must have known in February all that they knew now; and yet in the month of August they were asking for double the amount they asked the House to grant in February. The long explanation of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for war did not in the slightest degree alter the facts. All that, in his opinion, showed a great want of foresight, and of a full comprehension of
 1647 l.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he should oppose the Vote, on the ground that a pledge had been given that before any step was taken for the erection of buildings, the House would have a full opportunity of considering the matter. He believed, also, that Kensington-gore was too distant from town for the objects intended. Professional men and the various societies with which they were connected would never be induced to go so far in that direction.
 MR. NAPIER  said, that the great object of Government was the peace and security of society, and the formation of right laws; and not to have an efficient department in existence for carrying out that object satisfactorily to the public was a state of things both anomalous and unjustifiable. He had given notice of a Motion upon the subject of creating such a department, but he did not think that, at that late period of the Session, and with the anxiety that prevailed to carry forward the public business, he should be justified in proceeding with it now. Early in the next Session, however, he should ask the House to affirm a Resolution in favour of establishing a responsible and an efficient department to superintend all our law reforms and the drafting of Bills, and their conduct through Parliament; and he trusted he should receive the support of the House.
 MAJOR REED  said, that the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for War had described Lord George Paget as the senior cavalry officer in the Crimea.
 MAJOR REED  said, he found, from the  Army List,
 MAJOR REED  said, he rose to move the Resolution of which he had given notice. He had hoped that some hon. Member of greater weight with the House than himself would have moved in the matter, but as they were about to prorogue in a fortnight, and no one else had indicated an intention to take up the subject, he had felt bound, as a last resource, to endeavour to extract from Her Majesty's Government some assurance that, if during the recess terms of peace should be offered, Parliament should be called together and allowed to express its opinion upon those terms before they were finally accepted. His Resolution might be considered to be of too mild a character, and certainly he had previously drawn up one couched in. somewhat stronger language; but, wishing to avoid infringing on the Royal prerogative, he had subsequently been induced to modify its phraseology. If the noble Lord at the head of the Government did not feel it to be altogether his duty to give a pledge on the subject, it would, nevertheless, only
 1693 Laughter Laughter
 MAJOR REED  was about to reply, but was called to order by Mr. SPEAKER, who said the rules of the House did not allow a reply in such a case. The hon. and gallant Member then said he would divide the House.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to a report that Lord G. Paget had received a good-service pension of 100 l. 1631 devoir
 MR. MONTAGU CHAMBERS  said, he rose simply for the purpose of noticing the noble Lord's suggestion that possibly Parliament would be called together earlier than the usual period. The Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for A bingdon was not quite correct, as he had passed the line of power which the House possessed. The division of the different privileges of the Crown, the House of Commons, and the House of Lords, ought invariably to be preserved. If the House passed beyond their line of division, they relieved the Ministers from most important responsibilities. He was glad to hear the noble Lord express himself as he had done, because he had given to all who desired to discharge their duties efficiently the plan by which they ought to be guided. The prerogative of the Crown was a great prerogative in the making of war or peace, and the responsibilities of the Ministers were great. He, for one, was not inclined to relieve them from those responsibilities, by assisting in those councils, upon the question whether they should advise the Crown to conclude peace or prosecute war; but the country was exceedingly anxious that Parliament should be assembled at an earlier period than usual. [ Cries of 1696
 MR. MONTAGU CHAMBERS  said, that the foremen at Woolwich had been put under stoppage, which had had the effect of reducing their wages below those received by ordinary workmen. Those stoppages had not been enforced, and the men were now anxious to obtain their back pay. He had also to complain of the reduction, without notice, of the wages of the workmen employed by night in the Lancaster shell factory. Such sudden reductions might lead to very serious consequences. He was informed that the wages given in the Royal Arsenal were beneath those in private establishments. He thought it extremely important that those matters should be made the subject of investigation.
 MR. MONTAGU CHAMBERS  said, he had been told that there were a number of iron plates in the Arsenal which had been intended for Lancaster shells, and which had cost 7,000 l. l.,
 MR. MALINS  said, that he was very much surprised at the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cardwell). The right hon. Gentleman would have the British public to believe that the people were such idiots that they would not know what the credit of these Companies was, when every name, every note, and every letter would have marked on it limited liability. He was surprised to hear the hon. Member for the City of London (Mr. Masterman) opposed to the Bill, on the ground that the whole system of business in the City would be changed by the measure. If the hon. Gentleman would look at the matter with an unprejudiced eye, he could not suppose that commercial affairs could be carried on, on a general system of fraud. He (Mr. Malins) was persuaded that the members of the legal profession supported the Bill because they believed its operation would tend to the protection of individuals, and not to the increase of litigation.
 MR. MALINS  said, he could confirm the statement of the right hon. Baronet respecting the valuable labours in the Commission of Mr. Bellenden Ker, whose remuneration was by no means greater than he was entitled to.
 MR. SPOONER  said, it was his intention to take the sense of the Committee on the Vote. When the House, in 1852, voted the sum of 150,000 l., l. l.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he was opposed to the whole plan of the building at Kensington gore, and therefore should put every obstacle in the way of beginning the proposed scheme. He was ready to divide the Committee on the Vote.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the subject of a special Department of Public Justice was now under the consideration of the Commission, and he thought it would have been better for his right hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Napier), being a member of that Commission, to make his suggestion to them instead of to that House.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he wished to explain the circumstances which had led to the publication of some observations by Mr. Bellenden Ker on the expurgatory list of Statutes as an appendix to the Report of the Statute Law Commission, and in referring to a notice of Motion given by the hon. and learned Member for Ayr, (Mr. Craufurd), he would mention that there would be no objection to produce copies of the replies of Mr. Anstey and Mr. Coode, to that document.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, I wish to put a question to the Prime Minister regarding the mode resorted to by the British Government for raising a Foreign Legion, and to ask whether any communication has been received by him from any Foreign Power with reference to that subject? I have seen a letter from Bremen, complaining very much that vessels of war have been placed in the Weser and Elbe, and that they have been made the receptacles for persons who were induced to enlist in the English service. I wish to ask, therefore, whether the Government has received any communication from the Hanse Towns upon that subject; and I beg to express my opinion that, whether it be right or wrong to have a Foreign Legion, we ought not to raise it in any manner which is inconsistent with the municipal laws of other countries, but that we should respect the laws of other nations. There was an article in  The Times The Times, 1661
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I think, Sir, that the noble Lord has a little misunderstood my question. I asked him whether British men-of-war had been stationed in the Weser and the Elbe for the purpose of being the receptacle for men enlisting in Hamburg or Bremen, and carrying those men away—because that is the point.
 MR. MITCHELL  said, he doubted whether the spot chosen was not too far west. He was sorry, however, that the Government did not intend to commence the scheme on a much more extensive scale.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, that he must congratulate his right hon. Friend (Mr. Bouverie) upon the success of his measure. He hoped that it would pass during the present Session, because he was persuaded that the mercantile community would derive great benefit from it. It was most creditable to the Government that they had relieved the Board of Trade from all discretion as to the grant of charters of limited liability.
 MR. KENNEDY  said, there was no shadow of an excuse for the continuance of the Act. He should, therefore, move that the second reading be postponed for three months.
 MR. COGAN  said, he thought that, after the statement of the right hon. Gentleman (the Secretary for Ireland), it was very inconsistent to continue such a penal measure.
 MR. CUBITT  said, the question was whether the Committee would consent to the erection of a temporary building for the reception of many valuable collections which it was desirable the country should have the advantage of? Though we were in a state of war there were thousands of people whose minds were directed towards the study of science and art; and those collections, many of them of an educational character, would be of great assistance to such persons in their inquiries. At present much time and money were spent in making and reinventing things already done, but not generally known. Things were lying concealed which, if placed in a public building, accessible to all, would be of great value, both in saving time and expense, and in leading to important improvements. For such an object 15,000 l.
 MR. W. EWART  said, there was one point in which he thought our management had been very deficient, and that was in the application of the mechanical genius of the country to the conduct of the war. The method of contributing to the effect of warlike operations was peculiarly adapted, as he thought, to the English nation, with its great command of capital, its scientific knowledge and skilled labour, and its abundant stores of coal and iron. He had never yet understood the reason why the great gun of Mr. Nasmyth, which had been described as a most effective engine of warfare, had not been completed and brought into action. He had been told that at first the Government desired Mr. Nasmyth to proceed as quickly as possible with the construction of it; that he was then ordered to stop, and afterwards to go on again with
 1674
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, he hoped his hon. Friend the Member for Manchester would prove a true prophet—that other collections would be offered to the public, and that other buildings would be required to place them in; and that the House of Commons would, for the honour of the nation, provide the requisite accommodation. The proposed expenditure would, however, be complete in itself; it would be an outlay of 15,000 l.
 Mr. MASSEY  said, he trusted that the right hon. and learned Gentleman would fulfil his pledge, as, from the constitution of the Commission, he had little confidence in any useful result accruing from their labours.
 MR. MASSEY  said, it had been stated that the Lord Chancellor had received Reports from Mr. Bellenden Ker upon various Bills brought before Parliament, he begged to ask whether there would be any objection to publish those Reports?
 MR. MICHELL  said, he should oppose the Bill, and, as an instance of the inconvenience which occasionally arose from the application of limited liability, he would adduce the case of what are known as "scrip" mines in Cornwall.
 MR. MONSELL  said, that the real question was not with regard to the saving of expenditure in the management of the departments, but would the plan of consolidation, or would it not, give efficiency to the public service. That could only be tested by experience, but he rejoiced to see that no hon. Gentleman had found fault with the main principle of central control and individual responsibility. Under the old military system those principles, he believed, were entirely set aside. He could not doubt that the new plan would produce most satisfactory results—indeed, he believed that during the six weeks during which it had been in opera-
 1680 1681
 MR.MONSELL  said, that that was the last department respecting which he should have expected to hear complaints, but he would make inquiries. The iron plates had been put aside in consequence of improvements which had been discovered in the fabrication of the Lancaster shell since its first invention.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he would consent to reduce the Vote by 150 l.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he should certainly consider it a great advantage if he were allowed the Vote, inasmuch as it would enable him to procure the services of a military man as private secretary.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he must beg to explain that that sum had been originally fixed on the supposition that the officer appointed could also retain his full pay; but that not being the case, it was proposed that the salary should be 900 l.
 MR. MONSELL : There could be no alteration made in the clothing of the army without the sanction of the Commander in Chief.
 MR. MONSELL  said, it would perhaps be in the recollection of the Committee that when he brought forward the Ordnance Estimates in March last, he postponed the Vote for the Ordnance establishment, it being the intention of the Government to make certain alterations in the constitution of the whole of the War Department. The Estimate he now had to propose was for the establishment of the Ordnance Office as changed according to the intentions then expressed. He thought that the present was a convenient time to state the changes which had been made in the organisation of the military departments of the country. In the first place he imagined that it would not be necessary for him to dwell on the necessity of some change, for that was universally admitted. Two Commissions and one Committee of that House had reported within the last two years, expressing opinions in favour of large and important changes, and only last Session many distinguished Members on both sides of the House had expressed the same opinion, and he was happy to think it was no party question, for one of those Gentlemen was the right hon. Member for Droitwich (Sir J. Pakington), who in July last expressed an opinion with regard to the existing constitution of the War Department, and the absolute necessity for some change being made. At the commencement of the present war the administration of the army was divided into five separate departments. The discipline and government of the army were divided between the Commander in Chief and the Master General of the Ordnance, while the Secretary at War had large and important duties to perform, as had also the Master General and the Board of Ordnance, and the Commissariat fed the army; but all the departments were, disconnected, and there was no union among them or central control over them. The results of every system of organisation which must follow divided authority had been felt in those departments, for it was obvious that even without difference of opinion of principle there must be difference of energy in the various departments which was sufficient to frustrate all unity
 1663 1664 1665 materiel 1666 1667 matériel
 MR. MONSELL  said, he had informed the hon. and learned Member in the first words he spoke that the statement contained in his question was perfectly accurate, except in regard to the guns from which the projectiles were fired.
 MR. MONSELL,  in reply, said, that the result of the experiments made during the last week at Shoeburyness was generally in accordance with the statement contained in the hon. and learned Gentleman's questions, except in regard to the shells being fired from a common gun with a trifling alteration, they having in fact been fired from a rifle gun, while the service shot was fired from a smooth-bored gun. It was true that the invention had been nine months under the consideration of the Government. It was first referred to General Cator, the
 1658
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he objected to the amount of the Vote.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he agreed with almost everything which had been said by the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken. He expected something extra, but was not prepared for the great increase shown in the present Estimates. He was most desirous that the soldier should be properly paid, but he thought it was most extraordinary that the Secretary for War should have determined to increase the soldiers' pay 6 d.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wanted to know how it was intended to meet an additional expenditure of at least, he apprehended, 5,000,000 l. l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he understood that the former Vote of Credit had not been expended. He wished to know if that were the fact, and, further, he would observe that the number of men voted for the army had not been enlisted, nor had the 120,000 militia paid for by the country been embodied.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said the country had no objection to reward meritorious services, but it did desire that the money voted for that purpose should be applied in the best possible manner. He hoped the House would never abandon its right to discuss the application of every portion of the public funds.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he must protest against the doctrine of the noble Lord the Prime Minister that the House of Commons had no right to criticise the acts of governing authority in the distribution of public money.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished for an explanation of the increase in the charge for advertisements, stamps, travelling expenses, gazettes, and other contingencies, which, from 2,810 l., l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that nothing could be worse than the old clothing system. The clothing of the Marines, which was done by the Admiralty, was 17 per cent lower than that supplied to the line by the colonel. The present clothing of the militia was absolutely discreditable, and that was done by the colonels. ["No, no!"]
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he looked upon the Vote as the commencement of an expenditure which some persons calculated at hundreds of thousands, and others at
 1685
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that with Lord Hardinge most properly rested the responsibility of the selection of officers whose distinguished services he might consider entitled them to the good-service pensions. He (Mr. F. Peel) was rather surprised at the animadversions to which the present appointment had given rise, and wondered, also, that the hon. Member did not see the impropriety of bringing a ques-
 1632
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL : I said the senior regimental officer.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  replied, that the increased expenditure of hospitals, increase of pay to the army, and pay of the Foreign Legion, would exhaust the sums voted, but he did not think it would be necessary to take any additional Vote for army purposes.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that there was no certainty at the time referred to, that in the course of the financial year the Foreign Legion would be engaged in a state of war.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that, when he proposed the original Commissariat Estimates, he had explained that in former years it had been found sufficient to take a Vote under that head of 600,000 l. l. l. 1641 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1642 l. l. l. l. 1643 1. l., l. l. d. d. l. l. d. d. d. l. l. 1644 l. l. l. l. l. 1645 l. 1646
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, whenever coffee was now issued to the soldiers, it was in a ground state. Tea and coffee were issued on alternate days to the troops.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that no enlistment by us was necessary in the case. The Contingent was to be furnished by the Turkish Government.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, he must beg to explain that that was only the amount of provender in the Crimea for immediate issue. There were also large stores at Constantinople and other places.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, there were nineteen regiments of militia still disembodied; but who were liable to be called on to serve a certain number of days in the year, and who therefore required a provision for their payment.
 MR. BOWYER  said, that he must ob-
 1713
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that if the hon. Gentleman now assented to the second reading, it would still be open to him to object in Committee to such parts of the Bill as he thought should be omitted from it.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied, that the Lord Chancellor had informed him that Mr. Bellenden Ker, besides the attention, which he paid to the business of the Commission, had rendered valuable assistance by furnishing Reports upon various subjects of current legislation. The nature of those Reports was not such as to render their production possible, some of them
 1639
 SIR GEORGE TYLER  said, he was glad to learn that an officer was now to be appointed in connection with the Ordnance Department, as Director General of Naval Artillery. In the Order in Council the commander of the Royal Artillery was styled Director General of the Royal Artillery, while the commander of the Naval Artillery was merely termed the Naval Director of Artillery. [Mr. MONSELL: The title of the officer in question was to be Naval Director of Artillery.] He had misunderstood the matter, then; but he could not see why a naval officer, as a scientific man, having very considerable responsibilities to sustain, and having to be in constant communication with the Admiralty, should not rank as equal with the military Director General of Artillery. He saw, however, that it was proposed to fix the salary of the Naval Director of Artillery at only 500 l.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control a question with regard to the mode of collecting the salt duty in India. He wished to know whether any Report had yet been received from the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the mode of collecting those duties. He would remind the right hon. Gentleman and the House that two years ago, when the Indian Government Bill was under consideration, a clause was added to
 1659
 SIR WILLIAM GALLWEY  said, that many would perhaps consider that his question as to Lord George Paget's pension was a personal matter, but in reality it was not so. It was not a question of whether the noble Lord was justified in accepting the pension, for he (Sir W. Gallwey) thought any other officer who had been placed in the same position would not have refused the pension. There was, therefore, no intention of imputing any blame to the noble Lord for having done so; but the question was, whether there were not many other officers in the Crimea who, not only on account of actions in the field, but
 1634
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, that in the general orders issued to the army while at Varna, the officers were urged to provide themselves with baggage animals; and when the troops quitted that place the Commissariat animals were left behind, and afterwards died in large numbers from sheer neglect. A similar casualty would occur again if we did not provide a larger quantity of provender.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he could not understand the manner in which the various items of the Vote were lumped together. The Secretary for the Treasury described it as a Commissariat Vote for purely army purposes; but, surely, the expense of conveying specie to Turkey or to Sardinia did not come under that category. With regard to forage for our army, a two months' supply would be very insufficient.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he admitted that legislation on the subject was essential, but he considered that to hurry the Bill through Parliament during the present Session would only complicate the existing evils.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Although, Sir, I cannot agree to the Motion of the hon. and gallant Gentleman, I am ready to admit that I entirely acquiesce in the principle upon which the Motion is founded—that is to say, the principle that no peace should be concluded which was not honourable to the country and consistent with the objects for which the war was undertaken. All I can say is, that if the House does not so far place confidence in the Ministry as to believe that they will never conclude a peace which does not accomplish this purpose, and fulfil these conditions, the Motion of those who entertain such suspicions ought to be very differently worded from that of the hon. and gallant Gentleman. I think, in matters of this sort, there is no middle course. If the House distrusts the Government of the day—if they think that it is capable of concluding a peace betraying the interests and sacrificing the honour of the country, they ought at once to propose a Motion, the tendency of which would be to place in other hands the trust which they consider to be improperly performed. But, on the other hand, so long as Parliament is willing to leave to those who hold office that discretionary power which, by the constitution, belongs to the responsible advisers of the Crown, I think that this particular Motion is one which this House would not be disposed to listen to. Of course, in the first place, the hon. Gentleman admits that the power of entering into treaties and negotiations, and concluding terms with foreign Powers, is a function which, by the constitution, belongs to the Crown, and not to Parliament. It is for Parliament to judge afterwards of the conduct of the advisers of the Crown, who may be supporters of engagements between this country and foreign Powers, whether for peace or war; but it is not possible, according to the working and principle of our constitution, that Parliament should co-operate with the Crown in the conduct of negotiations and the conclusion of treaties resulting out of those negotiations. It is well known that when Parliament is prorogued, the period of prorogation is limited in duration, and it is moreover in the power of the Crown, if it should think that it requires the assistance
 1695
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : He must explain, that what he intended to say was, that it would not be consistent with the duty of Ministers to make any pledge as to what they would do under different circumstances, whether they would or not advise the Crown to assemble Parliament earlier than usual. If any occasion should arise in which, in the opinion of the Government, they should require the assistance of Parliament, then, undoubtedly, it would be called together.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that the real object of the Bill was to vest the Commissioners with certain powers of administration, which would prevent the necessity for long, expensive, and multiplied Chancery suits; and, therefore, the discussion of objections to particular provisions might fairly be reserved to a future stage.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the hon. Gentleman who spoke last, entirely misconceived the object of the Vote. He appeared to think that the Vote was to be applied to the beginning of a vast building, which would take a great deal of time to erect, which would cost a large sum of money, and which would proceed upon a plan which ought to be submitted to Parliament. In fine, he appeared to think that the Vote was to be the commencement of a great building for the accommodation of the scientific associations of the metropolis. That, however, was not the case, and the expense would be limited to the amount of the present Vote. The facts of the case were these—The public had already purchased a great number of specimens connected with science, arts, manufactures, and the education of the people, and those things were put away in places where they were practically inaccessible to the persons for whose advantage they had been collected. They were somewhat in the position of the library of Mr. Heber, which was packed away in cases and trunks in different warehouses, where it was inaccessible even to the persons to whom it belonged. The object of the Vote was to avoid a similar inconvenience, by the construction of a cheap and durable iron building at a comparatively small cost by means of which the Government would be enabled to arrange those different collections in such a way as to be useful for the purposes for which they were created. It was very well to say "We are engaged in the prosecution of a great war, and we can only afford to pay for the war," and that argument might apply with considerable force if the proposed Vote was on account of a large building which might require great additional expenditure to complete it. That, however, was not the case, and the Government were only asking for 15,000 l.,
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : It is well known, Sir, that Her Majesty's Government have established a depôt at Heligoland, where they are ready to enlist any persons who come from Germany; and, whatever laws there may be in some States against enlistment within the territory of those States, there is no law in any of them to prevent the free movement of persons who may choose to quit the territory for any purpose whatsoever. With regard to the question which arose in the United States, I beg to inform the right hon. Gentleman that a similar arrangement was made at Halifax, by which any persons going there from whatever quarter might be enrolled; but it appearing that that had led to questions within the territory of the United States, as to whether or not the law of that country had been violated, Her Majesty's Government, being desirous that no such questions should by possibility arise, has put an end to the enlistment of forces which used to take place at Halifax.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : That is no violation whatever of the law of any country. I believe that there are vessels stationed there which receive on board any persons who choose to take a passage to Heligoland.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I would really put it to the discretion of the House whether this is a kind of discussion which can be carried on with advantage to the public service? The question raised by the Motion of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Dillwyn) is whether the Commander in Chief, in the exercise of that discretion which is vested in him by virtue of his office, has properly or improperly selected a particular officer to receive one of those good-service pensions which the generosity of the country has placed at his disposal. Now, that question involves two considerations—first, as to whether the individual upon whom this reward has been conferred has himself performed services which, in the abstract, entitle him to receive it; and next, whether there are any other officers possessing claims which must be admitted, upon just consideration, to be superior to those of the officer upon whom the pension has been bestowed. I really would put it to the House whether it is possible for them—for the few Members who, by accident, upon a given day find themselves assembled within these walls—to be proper judges of cases of this sort? Is it possible that, even if they have a knowledge of all the facts and details of the particular case they can be competent judges of the conflicting claims of all the parties upon a due consideration of which the Commander in Chief's decision had been arrived at? If this House is to take upon itself not only to determine whether a particular officer upon whom any reward or honour is conferred is in himself deserving of that reward, but is also to pass in review all the other officers serving in a particular force
 1635 1636
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he had not denied the right; he only put it as a matter of discretion.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  rose to call the attention of the House to a Minute of the Treasury, dated the 23rd of February last, granting retired allowances to certain Irish Poor Law Inspectors. He had no wish in doing this to introduce any personal remarks with respect to the merits of the particular individuals who had received these allowances. Though small in actual amount for the present year, the sum which was granted in the shape of retired allowances altogether was very considerable. In one estimate it stood at 200,000 l. 1740 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1741 l. l. l. l. 1742
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that in describing the Minute as having slipped through the Treasury at the time that there was really no Chancellor of the Exchequer in office, he had not the slightest intention to throw any imputation on the hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Treasury.
 COLONEL NORTH  begged to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government which was interesting to every Member of the House. It was their privilege to give tickets of admission to the strangers' gallery. The day before yesterday two soldiers were in the hall, one belonging to the Royal Artillery, and the other a private soldier of the 17th Lancers. The artillery soldier had upon his breast two medals, and appeared to have been severely wounded. They were both anxious to obtain a seat in the gallery, and he gave an order to the artillery soldier, and his hon. Friend below him (Mr. Stafford) gave an order to the other man. It was, therefore, with great regret, mingled with
 1749
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the papers had been laid on the table, and were being printed, and the subject was
 1751
 MR. BRIGHT  said, as there would be no further opportunity of saying anything on the subject, he hoped the noble Lord would give a pledge that some specific inquiry into the matter should take place. It was impossible not to see that somebody or the other must be deeply culpable with reference to the transaction, but a promise would give great satisfaction to a number of persons.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that before promising that he must ascertain whether the papers gave all the information which was necessary to enable his right hon. Friend to come to a decision, and in his anxiety to place them in the hands of Members they had been sent to the printer's before he had time to give the necessary attention to them. He believed that they would contain all the information required, but if they did not, and more was necessary, further inquiry would be made.
 MR. BRIGHT  hoped he would not be considered pertinacious, but the noble Lord told them many things which might be interesting, but were not the things which were asked of. Would the noble Lord cause an inquiry to be made into the matter? If he would not, let him say so. He would not bring the matter more fully before the House, which he might do by moving the adjournment to Monday; but when 500 persons had been slaughtered he had a right to put a question on the subject. What he wanted to know was, whether the noble Lord would take steps to prevent such occurrences in future?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  thought he had answered the question of the hon. Gentleman. What he meant to say was, that it was possible the papers contained all the information necessary to enable the Government to come to a decision, but if it turned out that they did not contain all the information, there would be further inquiry. He did not know that he could say any more.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTCN  asked whether her Majesty's Government had re-
 1754
 MR. GLADSTONE :  * sine quâ non 1795 l. 1796 1797 1798 Moniteur, Moniteur. "It is certain the English Government decided on rejecting it (the Austrian proposal) The Emperor, therefore, had the same motives for refusing it—that is to say, that it did not offer such a peace as would give sufficient guarantees to the Powers which had made so many sacrifices to defend and secure European right. His Majesty had, moreover, a desire to maintain in all its integrity and force the alliance with England, and the feeling of that Government on the question being already known, had, beyond any doubt, a certain weight with him." 1799 1800 1801 argumentum ad hominem, 1802 ad invidiam. casus belli Primâ facie, 1803 1804 1805 1806 1807 "As to the third principle, we have proposed to our allies, at the same time binding ourselves in case of need to support it by force of arms, a solution which it is our firm conviction would be effectual, complete, and agreeable, to European interests." casus belli "If Russia, being placed in a position to agree to one or other of these proposals of the  ultimatum, 1808 casus belli. 1809 1810 opposuit natura. 1811 sine quâ non, 1812 l. 1813 1814 "Ergo age, care pater, cervici imponere nostræ; Ipse subibo humeris, nec me labor iste gravabit." 1815 l. 1816 bonâ fide l. 1817 l. l. l. l. l. 1818 1819 Ost-Deutsch-Post, 1820 "On the 20th the burial of the dead was continued, but towards evening the flag of truce was removed and the bombardment recommended; but much more feebly than before. The same day a  Te Deum 1821 1822 1823 "We shall await, in a firm attitude, the progress of events and the propitious moment for renewing the negotiations for peace, to which, when that moment arrives, we shall on our part only agree with the irrevocable resolution of making them tend to the faithful, effectual, and complete realisation of the four guarantees." "On the other hand, we have announced—I am still answering the inquiry of my noble and learned Friend—that, as the four bases were to be maintained in their entirety, and that as the third basis has been rejected and the responsibility of breaking up the negotiations at Vienna does not rest upon us, but upon Russia, we consider ourselves entirely disengaged from those bases." 1824 Cries of 1825
 MR. GLADSTONE : I confess I have listened with great surprise to what has taken place during this combination. I believe this conversation may just as well be called a combination—a term which I used inadvertently—as the concurrence of the opinions and votes which my right hon. Friend (Sir W. Molesworth) has chosen to adorn with that name. In taking notice of the right hon. Gentleman, I shall not forget what he appears to have forgotten—our former connection as colleagues in the relations in which we acted for a very considerable time. The language which the right hon. Gentleman used on the hustings was, I think, used with little consideration, notwithstanding the circumstances to which the hon. Member for Manchester
 1846
 THE MARQUESS OF GRANBY  did not know what the impressions of the right hon. Gentleman might have been when he had made the charge upon the hustings; but after what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Carlisle and the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford, he could not help thinking that any erroneous impression of the vote of Friday week which he might have formed must have been removed from his mind. He, therefore, hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would get up in his place, and acknowledge that he had been mistaken.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  regretted, after what had taken place, that the right hon. Baronet had not honestly and fairly confessed his error.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  had said the papers had only just reached him.
 MR. A. STAFFORD  said, that if he rightly understood, soldiers might be admitted hereafter in uniform, so that they did not carry arms. He must do the Sergeant-at-Arms the justice to say that he regretted the arrangement which was in operation, but he felt himself bound to obey it. He saw himself that the soldiers in question were not armed, but he felt a difficulty about their admission. One of the soldiers, seeing the sword of that officer, asked whether he was going to the Crimea.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that at that late hour he would not long detain the House, especially since it was clear that they had heard nothing that evening which had not been over and over again discussed in that
 1826 The Times 1827 1828 "It might be brought about by a common agreement that the maritime Powers should maintain in the Black Sea a force adequate to counterbalance the naval forces which Russia has heretofore maintained, and, if uncontrolled, may again hereafter maintain in that sea. But this would be nothing more than an armed truce, liable to be interrupted at every moment by chance collisions, and entailing on the maritime Powers a perpetual expenditure to keep up, at a distance from their arsenals, an efficient force in the Black Sea, while Russia, having her arsenals at hand and her harbours of refuge always open, would be relieved in a great measure from the costs to which the other Powers would be exposed. It may well be doubted whether, after a few years, Great Britain would continue such an expenditure." 1829 "I showed that the project of counterpoise was ineffectual, as we could not always have a large fleet at hand; humiliating to Turkey if she were always to lean on France and England; unsafe for Europe, which would be kept in the perpetual ferment of preparation for war. We had, however, examined this plan carefully, in conformity with the desires of Austria, and only gave it up from being convinced of its inadequacy." "I have the satisfaction to inform your Lordships that Her Majesty's Government entirely approve your language in reply to Count Buol, as reported in your despatch of the 10th instant. The opinions of Her Majesty's Government could not have been more faithfully represented, or more ably expressed." "Without giving any opinion upon the proba-
 1830 1831 1832 l. l. 1833 Le Nord, 1834
 MR. DISRAELI : I am very willing that this subject should be terminated, especially as, in the absence of the right hon. Gentleman, I made some comments which would seem to render it unnecessary for me now to address the House. But it appears to me that the issue is changed. I really thought the noble Lord rose to extricate his right hon. Friend and colleague from a disagreeable position, but the noble Lord entirely changed the question we are really discussing, and now the right hon. Baronet makes the explanation which his noble Friend has in a manner forced from him, and accepts the issue which the noble Lord has placed before the House; but which I say is a false issue. It was not that complaints were made because the right hon. Gentleman accused Members of this House of acting in "combination" on a particular question. "Combination" is a word to which many different meanings can be ascribed, although it is oftener applied in an odious sense than otherwise; and if severely tested it would, perhaps, have such a meaning as applied to this case. But it is the epithets which were affixed to the word "combination" which gave the great offence, and prevented any mistake as to the nature of the imputations cast on the right hon. Gentleman by the Secretary of State. But those epithets the noble Lord has entirely thrown over. He has raised an argument on the issue of the word combination. I do not at all agree with the noble Lord in the statement that it is the general opinion that there was some pre-arranged combination between the two sides of the House on that occasion. I have no doubt the noble Lord was very much astonished
 1849
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the right hon. Baronet was not entitled to make another speech and was going beyond the bounds of an explanation.
 MR. SPEAKER : I cannot call an hon. Member to order for any language he has used out of this House.
 MR. SPEAKER : There is no rule of the House recorded in the Journals which would exclude soldiers from the strangers' gallery, nor do I at all see why they should be excluded, But very many years ago, exception was taken to soldiers appearing in uniform in the gallery, and some conversation occurred in the House, in consequence of which it was understood that they should not be admitted except in plain clothes. That practice had prevailed some years, and of course, the officers of
 1750
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : I am not sure that I correctly understand my right hon. Friend's question. No officer is justified in destroying a neutral vessel, but he is justified in destroying an enemy's vessel if he thinks it necessary to do so. He must exercise his judgment as to whether he will destroy or not. It is nonsense to say that he must send home every captured vessel for adjudication in a prize court.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  requested the permission of the House to explain some words which he was supposed to have uttered on Monday last, and which had caused some pain to the hon. and gallant Member opposite (Admiral Walcott), to whose feelings they were all desirous of paying deference. He had hoped that in the observations which he addressed to the House the other evening, when resisting the Motion of the hon. and gallant Gentleman, he had succeeded in his desire to avoid anything which could give offence to, or hurt the feelings of any one. He had, however, received a letter from the hon. and gallant officer, who seemed to think that he (Sir C. Wood) had said something which was disparaging to the gallant Gentleman's professional character. The words attributed were—"but as the service in question had not been thought worthy of a distinctive mark of honour at the time—a quarter of a century ago—he must decline to accede to the Motion." He had informed the hon. and gallant Officer by letter, and he now declared publicly, that he was perfectly convinced that he never had used those words. He had referred to several of those organs through which the public were made acquainted with the proceedings of that House, and he found no such words attributed to him. He could not have used those words, because the reason assigned by them was not that which led him to resist the Motion. His reason for objecting to the production of the papers asked for was because he did not think it was desirable for that House to interfere with the distribution of honours which ought to proceed from the Crown alone, as being the fountain of honour.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : With regard to the last question which the right hon. Gentleman has put, I do not feel myself competent to give him an answer. I may add, that I am not aware that any such proposition has been made—at all events, no such proposition has been brought under the general consideration of the Government. As to the first question, the order issued to our cruisers acting against the enemy in the Baltic, as elsewhere, is in the ordinary terms to take, burn, and destroy; and in executing those orders a due discretion must always be exercised by the officers in command, as to the most effectual mode of carrying out the object with which they are charged, namely—to put an end to the trade of the enemy. With regard to the further question, I have to state that the order is not confined simply to vessels under sail, or actually navigating, but extends to those which might be used at a short notice for that purpose. It would be absurd to suppose that because a vessel was lying in harbour, or at anchor, under such circumstances she was not liable to be taken and destroyed just as much as though she was under sail. All coasting vessels belonging to the enemy are liable to be taken and dealt with as prizes, or destroyed, as best suits the convenience of the cruiser by which they are captured. Thus in the recent operations in the Sea of Azoff, the officers in command of our cruisers sacrificed large sums of money, which they would have been entitled to as prize money, by destroying vessels rather than capturing them and sending them home for condemnation, because they believed that by taking that course they were best performing the service required of them. But with regard to small vessels that were not likely to be used in conveying merchandise to foreign places, or supplies and stores to the enemy—and the greater part of the vessels taken and destroyed in the Baltic have been vessels actually employed in conveying stores to the works at Cronstadt—with regard to the smaller vessels not so employed, or
 1748 "Sixth October—Captured a small schooner, partly laden with salt. Destroyed the schooner, and took the salt on board. Ninth—Captured another vessel—a small sloop; but finding that she was not engaged in trade, and that she belonged to a very poor person, let her go."
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  asked whether the Legislative Council of Victoria had charged a sum of 50,000 l.
 MR. DIVETT  said, there was a difference of views among the colonies as to the route to be fixed on; were they now agreed to accept the route of the Oriental Company?
 MR. FRENCH  observed, that the objection to which allusion had been made was taken by one of the friends of the people, a former Member for Westminster, Sir Francis Burdett.
 MR. FRENCH  contended that great injustice had been done to the paymasters of the Irish constabulary, and expressed his opinion that the Irish Poor Law Inspectors had not the slightest claim for retiring pensions. He trusted that a Com-
 1745
 MR. MACARTNEY  felt that great credit was due to the right hon. Gentleman (Sir F. Baring) for having brought the subject before the House. The civil servants of the Crown in Ireland had for years past complained of the practice adopted in granting retired allowances.
 1743
 MR. WILSON  said, he wished to make one remark upon the statement of the right hon. Baronet (Sir F. Baring), as to this Minute having slipped through a sitting of the Lords of the Treasury between the retirement of the late Chancellor of the Exchequer and the appointment of the present Chancellor of the Exchequer. No person could misunderstand what the right hon. Baronet intended to insinuate. It was evident that he meant to insinuate that the passing of the Minute was an act of his (Mr. Wilson's). But no one ought to know better than the right hon. Baronet, from long experience, that the passing of a Minute by the Treasury was not done in a day. Weeks and even months were sometimes required before a Minute was determined upon. The insinuation, therefore, was both unfair and unjust. The right hon. Baronet also knew that the only alternatives contemplated by the Superannuation Act were old age and incapacity from ill health. When however a man's office was abolished while he was still young and in good health, but before he had had time to make provision for himself, the subject required to be dealt with on entirely different principles. In the Superannuation Act there were certain clauses not connected with the general scheme of the Act, referring solely to payments on the abolition of offices, and in those clauses ample authority was given to the Commissioners of the Treasury to make allowances to persons whose offices were abolished, but such person was at all times liable to be appointed to any other public office for which his previous services rendered him eligible. This reduced the matter to a question of policy, and hence each allowance stood upon its own grounds and upon its own merits. Thus, in one of the cases where the salary was 500 l. l. 1744 l. l. l.
 MR. WILSON  could assure the right hon. Baronet that, so far from the Minute having slipped through the Treasury, it had been the subject of long consideration and discussion before the change in the office of the Chancellor of the Exchequer took place.
 MR. WILSON  said that the Admiralty, at any rate, were perfectly prepared, on receiving the Report of the Postmaster General, to recommend that arrangements should be made for effecting this object. At the same time it might be necessary that some communication should be had with the colonies before any plan could be carried out.
 MR. WILSON  believed that no direct communication had been received from Victoria with respect to any offer made by the Legislative Council of that colony, but they were in possession of papers at the Treasury which recorded the circular letter of Sir William Denison to the other colonies, making a proposal that they
 1753 l. l. l. l.
 MR. WILSON  added that one of the colonies wished that the communication should take place by the Isthmus of Panama, while another colony desired that it should be carried out by the India Overland route.
 MR. WILSON  said that no official communication of this fact had been received.
 MR. BRIGHT : I wish to make an appeal to the right hon. Baronet the Colonial Secretary. He has been called upon by the right hon. Member for Carlisle (Sir J. Graham) to retract his statement, and I understood he rose for the purpose of explaining that he did not mean to say at his election that which the newspapers report him to have said, although it is quite evident that the speech was carefully written out, and it is believed that it was in the hands of the newspapers before it was spoken. You, Sir, no doubt very properly, called the right hon. Baronet to order, and he sat down in the middle of a sentence. I certainly think it would be an advantage, and would show some decorum on the part of a Cabinet Minister, if the right hon. Baronet was allowed to finish his sentence, and to make the retraction which he was called upon to make by the right hon. Member for Carlisle.
 MR. BROTHERTON  moved the adjournment of the House.
 MR. COBDEN : It is not my intention to delay the House for more than a few minutes, because I think that, after the able and exhaustive speech of the right
 1835 1836 par excellence 1837 début 1838 "The sole pretext that has ever been assigned, or that can be assigned, to justify our interference in the affairs of Turkey, is lest Russia should interfere alone and take possession of Constantinople. I will assume that the possession of Constantipole would be as great a calamity as some persons suppose. I will suppose that, despising every law of human interest, Russia shall prohibit our commerce, refuse all interchange of commo-
 1839 1840
 MR. LAING  rose, according to notice, to call the attention of the House to the objects and policy of the war as affected by the late negotiations, and to move an Address for copies of any Correspondence with the French Government relative to the last proposals of Austria. It was scarcely necessary for him to say that no thing but a strong sense of duty could have induced him to bring forward this Motion on the present occasion. He was perfectly aware that to invite discussion at this period of the year, when the strength of hon. Members, both mental and physical, was expended, was not the best way to add to his popularity in this House; and he was equally aware that the opinions he was about to express were not likely to add to his popularity in the country. The importance of the present crisis, however, was such that he should be unworthy of his seat in that House if he allowed such considerations to weigh with him for a single moment. The Government had recently come to a decision—one of the most important in modern history—in regard to the non-acceptance of the Austrian propositions for peace in opposition to the unanimous opinions of the five Plenipotentiaries who represented the Allied Powers at the Conferences at Vienna; the war, prolonged in consequence of that decision, had entered into a new phase; and the relations of this country towards its allies and other Powers of Europe had been entirely changed. Now, no discussion whatever had taken place with re-
 1755 1756 suppressio veri suggestio falsi. 1757 1758 "The object of the war was to limit the political power of Russia to such a point as to render the abuse of its material resources, if not impossible at least in the highest degree difficult." 1759 "I have always considered that, whatever arrangements may be made for the security of Turkey, in order to have a durable peace, we ought to have Austria and Prussia and the States of Germany parties to a general alliance, by which Turkey would be secured against aggression." 1760 casus belli imperium in imperio casus belli. casus belli. 1761 tête-à-tête 1762 ipso facto 1763 casus belli. 1764 1765 1766 casus belli. "The end in view is the formal recognition of the Turkish Empire in its character as an independent and self-existent State, as a member of the great European family, and as an essential element of the balance of power in Europe. One of the means by which that end is to be accomplished is the abrogation of Russian supremacy
 1767 1768 casus belli casus belli "In making these propositions, the Austrian Government declared that they were ready to make them an  ultimatum 1769 casus belli. Hansard, "If Russia, being placed in a position to agree to one or other of these propositions of the  ultimatum, "But in the present case no such inducements are held out; the conditions are not in themselves such as would be satisfactory to us. We are told that Russia would, in all probability, refuse them;
 1770 bona fides l. l. 1771 1772 1773 prestige, prestige; prestige prestige prestige versus 1774
 MR. WALPOLE : The right hon. Baronet has made a charge not only against members of the peace party, but against his former colleagues, and against, as he termed them, an unscrupulous Opposition.
 1845
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Am I to understand that the jurisdiction of the Court of Admiralty is superseded, and that it is for the Admiral in future to decide whether the vessels captured are Russian property or not? Are such vessels not to be carried home to be judged by the proper tribunal whether they are lawful prizes or not—or is the Admiral to decide both as to the ship and the property in her?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said: Sir, I rise to put a question either to the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty, or to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, as to the mode in which the
 1746 "A proposition embracing not only the rule that free ships make free goods, except in the case of articles contraband of war, but that neutral property other than contraband on board enemy's ships should be exempt from confiscation, has been submitted by this Government to the Governments of Europe." "that should the leading Powers of Europe concur in the proposition, as a rule of international
 1747
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  considered the whole affair one of the most unjustifiable he had ever known. The question was a very serious one of Administrative Reform—how could it be expected that the ordinary Civil Servants of the Government would be inclined to show any energy in the discharge of their duties, when such gross favouritism was shown to a particular class of officers, and when they saw that one class of public servants was thrown aside, and another class was pensioned in a most extravagant manner? He had moved for the returns and for a copy of the Minute to which the right hon. Baronet had referred, for the purpose of showing that gross injustice had been done either to one or another class of public servants. Either the Poor Law Inspectors in Ireland had been very much over rewarded, or the paymasters of the constabulary had been very much underpaid. The latter had a right to believe that their services would be permanent, while the Poor Law Inspectors had no right to expect any such thing; yet the paymasters of the constabulary force, whose services had exceeded fourteen years, received an annual pension of only 42 l. l.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I am quite willing to admit that Her Majesty's Government have no right to complain of the course which the hon. Gentleman has taken in having, before the prorogation of Parliament, again brought the important subject to which his speech and the Motion he has made relate, under the consideration of the House; nor can any one complain of the manner in which he has brought it before us. But, at the same time, it is much to be regretted that, if the hon. Gentleman did think it necessary in the discharge of his duty to revive before the prorogation of Parliament the discussions that have taken place in this
 1775 1776 1777 1778 1779 "In common with her allies, Her Majesty most anxiously desires to see peace restored to Europe in such a manner as to afford a reasonable assurance that it will long remain uninterrupted; but this can only be expected if the conditions of that peace are such as to afford a sufficient guarantee for the future security of Turkey." "But it will be in vain to stipulate that the Danubian provinces shall be withdrawn from the exclusive protectorate of Russia, or that the navigation of the Danube shall be set free from the obstructions which impede it, unless effectual precautions are taken to render the Turkish empire an integral part of the European system, and sufficient restraint be imposed upon the military and naval power heretofore exercised by Russia in the Black Sea, and the overbearing influence which, by reason of that power, she has acquired over the councils of the Porte." 1780 "Might be effected by a twofold process—by reducing the maritime force of Russia in the Black Sea within reasonable compass, and by opening that sea, with the consent of Turkey, to the maritime forces of other nations. Her Majesty's Government would much regret that the Porte should be so impressed with a sense of its own comparative weakness as to be prepared to abdicate its power to defend the Turkish empire against even a limited display of hostile force. It would be better for the nations of Europe that the Porte should be encouraged to rely on its own resources, though left at liberty to call in the aid of friendly Powers to counteract the menaces of its powerful neighbour; but the re-
 1781 "The blood and treasure which have been so freely expended in support of that policy would be altogether thrown away if the only result of our efforts should be a hollow truce, to be broken whenever a suitable opportunity should arise for the attainment of the long-cherished objects of Russian ambition—the subjugation of the Ottoman Empire in Europe, and the enthronement of a Russian prince in the capital of Turkey." 1782 "I showed that the project of counterpoise was ineffectual, as we could not always have a large fleet at hand; humiliating to Turkey, if she were always to lean on France and England; unsafe for Europe, which would be kept in the perpetual ferment of preparation for war. We had, however, examined this plan carefully, in conformity with the desires of Austria, and only gave it up from being convinced of its inadequacy." 1783 "I said that the British Government had always pointed to the Russian fleet in Sebastopol as a standing menace to Turkey, and to provide by treaty that this very force might again be constructed and assembled would be a course they could not justify to Parliament or the nation. That Russia, if she consented to limitation, would hardly refuse to agree to one that would be efficient. The closing of the Dardanelles and an efficient limitation were consistent propositions; but if the limitation was not to be efficient, the closing of the Straits would be inconsistent. He had himself argued that the danger consisted not in the magnitude of the Russian force, but in the  tête-à-tête "The Ottoman Minister, who was unfortunately not summoned to meet us, is of a totally different opinion—[that is from Count Buol]. He thinks it would be injurious to the Porte to require that she should devote her revenues to the fortifications on the Bosphorus, when internal improvements so urgently require her attention. He doubts whether any forts on the Bosphorus would save Constantinople from attack." "In saying this, I may appear to contradict my former opinions. But, in fact, I do not retract those opinions. The system of limitation I believe to be far better than that of counterpoise. But the question is between an imperfect security for Turkey and for Europe, and the continuance of the war." 1784 1785 "I then proceeded to state that Her Majesty's Government could not attach much practical value to the engagement of Austria to make, at some future period, a  casus belli ultimatum; 1786 casus belli "Lord Clarendon does not attach much practical value to this stipulation, since, he says, Austria has already declared that she could not admit that the question of peace or war should turn upon eight or ten ships. But we may be permitted to remind his Lordship of the immense difference that exists between our attitude in the actual state of affairs, while we are still free to determine as to the question of war, and the contrary position in which we should be placed were the case of war once clearly defined and stipulated by treaty. In this contingency no one can doubt that Austria would scrupulously act up to the engagements she contracted." 1787 "I reminded Count Colloredo that Austria was pledged to put an end to the preponderance of Russia in the Black Sea, and I asked how that pledge would be redeemed by the proposal that the allied armies and fleets should withdraw from the Crimea and the Black Sea, and that England, France, and Turkey should agree by treaty that the naval forces of Russia should be re-established in that sea, the same in number and in power as before the war, which amount we had constantly declared, and Austria had agreed with us in declaring, was a menace to the Ottoman empire, and to the peace and equilibrium of Europe. I said that on a former occasion I had expressed, in strong terms, to Count Colloredo the opinion of Her Majesty's Government upon this proposal, and it was hardly necessary to inform him that that opinion was unchanged. It was unnecessary, I said, to inform Count Colloredo that Her Majesty's Government desired peace, but they would prefer the continuation of the war to a peace that would not be honourable or likely to last, and which would not effect the objects we had undertaken to secure for the maintenance of the Ottoman empire, and the future tranquillity of Europe." "If, therefore, Austria can discover such a scheme it will not only be favourably considered by Her Majesty's Government, but will be to them a cause of the most sincere satisfaction; but it must be a scheme that will be effectual for its purpose; it must impose conditions on Russia, and not be a scheme by which the allies are to impose conditions upon themselves, leaving in the Black Sea complete freedom of action to Russia." 1788 "Your Lordship will convey to Count Buol the best thanks of Her Majesty's Government for this communication, which they regard as a fresh proof of the goodwill of Austria, and of her earnest desire to promote the restoration of peace; and you will state to his Excellency that Her Majesty's Government consider that they would be wanting in the frankness and good faith which have hitherto characterised the proceedings between Austria and the Western Powers if they hesitated to make known the objections they entertain to the course which Count Buol proposes to adopt, and the grounds on which they think that the engagement taken by his Excellency at the last conferences will not be effectually carried out by a project which he says he expects that Russia will reject, and which cannot be acceptable to England and France." casus belli. "I expressed my entire concurrence with Count Buol as to the desirableness of limiting the political power of Russia; but instead of entering upon a new problem, the practical solution of which was not even alluded to by Count Buol, I thought it would be more prudent for the allies to confine themselves to the question at issue, which was how to give effect to the third basis, and to put an end to the preponderance of Russia in the Black Sea, and as yet no way so simple or so effectual had been discovered as such a limitation of her naval forces in that sea as should render their amount consistent with the safety of Turkey. In his despatch to Count Colloredo, Count Buol expresses his firm conviction that the proposal of Austria for giving effect to the third basis would be effectual, complete, and in conformity with the interest of Europe; and his Excellency adds that its rejection by the Western Powers does not permit Austria to cast exclusively upon Russia the responsibility of the failure of the negotiations. Upon this I remarked that England and France, being at war with Russia, and having made vast sacrifices, must be allowed to judge for themselves on what terms they could make peace consistently with their honour, and with the objects for which such sacrifices had been made, and that the necessity under which they felt themselves of declining the proposals of Austria proved that, in their judgment, those proposals were neither effectual nor complete, nor likely to be for the advantage of Europe. But Russia, I said, had rejected terms that Austria thought reasonable in themselves and necessary
 1789 1790 1791 1792 1793 1794
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Sir, I do not rise to prolong the discussion that has just taken place between my hon. Friend the Member for the West Riding and the right hon. Baronet; but the right hon. Baronet has said, with reference to the speech made by him at his late election, that he has nothing to retract. Having recently been the colleague of that right hon. Gentleman, I have still so much respect for his character that I am quite sure that when I show him that he has unintentionally stated what is not the case, he will immediately be ready to retract one of his statements. I understand him to have said that he considered the conduct of certain parties in this House to be dishonourable, unpatriotic, and discreditable to themselves, inasmuch as they devised and entered into a combination of parties in respect to the Vote on the Turkish Loan. Now, sir, I happened to have been sitting next to my hon. Friend the Member for Stoke (Mr. Ricardo) immediately before
 1843
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  hoped that steam communication between England and the Australian colonies would be speedily resumed.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : One of these papers was a circular despatch, addressed by Sir William Denison the Governor General, to the other Australian colonies, proposing that they should subscribe 100,000 l. l.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  rose to ask
 1752 l.
 MR. ROBERT PHILLIMORE : It seems that the right hon. Baronet has studied his favourite author, Hobbes, to some effect, and that he considers that when a man recants his opinions he has great licence of speech. Although I am one of the humblest individuals who voted in the minority on the occasion which has been referred to, I can assure the right hon. Baronet that I took that course with the conscientious conviction that I was
 1844 Order.
 MR. ROBERT PHILLIMORE : But the right hon. Baronet has adhered to that language in the House. I do not think you can be aware, Sir, that the right hon. Gentleman has adhered to that language in his place, and I say, with great respect to the Chair, that any person who accuses me on the hustings of nefarious designs utters vulgar and scurrilous abuse. [ Order!
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH : I did not make a retraction.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH : When I used the words "combination of parties," I merely intended to describe the impression which was produced upon my mind by the events of last Friday week. On that occasion we were surprised, not, I must say, by the Peace party, because with them we have been at perpetual war, but by the sudden attack of the right hon. Gentlemen who sit on the benches behind us, and the simultaneous attack of hon. Gentlemen opposite. This attack was so simultaneous—
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH : Then I shall say no more.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH : As I am called upon at this late hour of the night to reply to this most unexpected burst of attack, I hope the House will bear with me for a few minutes. The hon. Gentleman has called me to account, in the first place, for the speech I delivered the other day to my constituents of South wark. I cannot say that I either regret or retract one single sentiment I uttered on that occasion, because I believe that in that speech I expressed not only the opinions of the 11,000 electors of Southwark, but also the opinions of a great portion of the thinking and reflecting men of this country with reference to the conduct of hon. Gentlemen on the subject of the Turkish loan. Sir, I had found that a strong feeling of deep anxiety and alarm pervaded many classes of my constituents, lest by some party movement the alliance of England with France should be disturbed and the war brought to a disgraceful and discreditable termination; and in order to tranquillise and allay their alarm I felt it my duty to tell them that if ever such a result were brought about it should not be by the Government of my noble Friend Lord Palmerston, of which I am a Member. This opinion I expressed, Sir, and in so doing I denounced the conduct of the three parties who I considered had united a short time before for the purpose of surprising the Government on the subject of the Turkish Loan. I repeat that there is not a single sentence I then thought it my duty to express to my constituents which I in any way regret or feel disposed to retract. The hon. Gentleman the Member for the West Riding, has referred to certain conversations which he
 1841 1842
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH : I believe I can now speak on the adjournment. When I was stopped by you, Sir, I was proceeding to state how I came to
 1848
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that he had been so short a time in office that he had not had time to give a careful consideration to the papers to which reference had been made. He did not, however, see any reason why her Majesty's Government should not accept the proposal of the colonists to bear part of the expense of the steam communication.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that the House had always thought right to exclude from its precincts persons who were armed; but he apprehended that no distinction could be drawn in regard to the persons who should be admitted founded upon the form or colour of their clothes:—and most certainly he should apprehend that it never could have been intended that the soldiers of Her Majesty's army, merely because they were in the service of the country and wore the uniform of Her Majesty, should be debarred from the privilege which was accorded to all other Members of the community, in regard to admission into the strangers' gallery of the House of Commons. He was not, however, aware what regulation existed upon the subject. Upon that point the Speaker was a far higher authority than he could pretend to be; and perhaps the right hon. Gentleman would inform the House whether there had been any Resolution with respect to it which would require to be rescinded, or whether the matter was one entirely within the discretion of the officers of the House, so that nothing more would be required than an intimation of opinion conveyed to them by the Speaker, and which would be received as a direction of the House.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : My right hon. Friend concluded his speech by charging the right hon. Baronet with having attacked hon. Gentlemen in this House with combination upon this question. ["No, no!"] I am not talking of epithets, I am talking of substantives. I beg pardon of hon. Gentlemen opposite. This is the question which is raised, and my right hon. Friend who last spoke put it distinctively on the ground that he was asking the right hon. Baronet (Sir W. Moles worth) whether what he stated was the impression on his own mind, or whether he asserted it positively as an actual fact. That is the question which the right hon. Gentleman the
 1847
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that so far from concurring with the view of the hon. and learned Member that the Bill would be a mischievous and disastrous change in our legislation, he believed that it would be eminently beneficial. Everybody knew that there was a numerous class of cases in which the amount of property, the subject matter of offence,
 1871 1872
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL,  in moving that the House resolve itself into Committee to consider the clauses, said, as the understanding was that the discussion should be taken at that stage, he would state shortly the leading principles and provisions of the measure. He regretted that a measure of such importance had been delayed to so late a period of the Session, but as far as he was concerned the delay was inevitable. It had been charged against him by the public press that he had been the cause of the delay, and that he had been influenced by sordid motives, being anxious to prevent the diminution of the fees and emoluments of his office, which would be affected by the Bill. Never had a more unfair or unjust charge been made. He had himself introduced a Bill based upon the same principle, and having the same object in view as the present measure of which the present Bill was an Amendment. That Act appointed a Commission, with powers almost as large as they would be under the present Bill. An extension of those powers in certain directions had, however, been found necessary, and not only was he extremely anxious that that extension should take place, but he had used every possible exertion to effect that object, by expediting the progress of the measure, which he was charged with having, from unworthy and sordid motives, impeded. The reason of the delay was that when the Bill came down from the Lords, about the end of June, the House of Commons were so engaged in pressing on the various measures still before them, in order to send them up to the other House before the 24th of July, after which that House had resolved not to read any Bill a second time, that there was not time to consider any measure sent down from the Lords to the Commons. It had been asserted, as he had just stated,
 1876 1. 1877 1. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. 1878 l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. 1879
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that one portion of the remarks of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had last addressed them consisted in a criticism of some of the details of the Bill, and that criticism would have been more appropriately made in the Committee on the Bill. Another portion consisted in a personal attack on the competency of the Charity Commissioners, and a third portion was made up of the ordinary lamentation, that the Government should attempt at that late period to retrieve the Session and make the best use of the remaining time, by passing some measures with which the House of Commons might have just cause to be satisfied. It could not be contended that it was now too late to consider the Bill, seeing that the subject to which it referred had been before the attention of Parliament for more than twenty years, for there was not a provision in the Bill which might not be traced to a Report of a Committee of that House in 1835, though, with the ordinary delay which marked attempts at legal reform, they were now trying to carry into effect some of the best recommendations of that Report. With respect to the Commissioners, it was hardly necessary for him, in their vindication, to advert to their professional character, long experience, and to the care and attention they bestowed on the examination of the cases brought be-
 1885 1886 l. 1887
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he must beg to explain that by the 18th section trustees could not be removed without an opportunity being afforded to object to such a proceeding.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the Bill was of so much importance, and would be so beneficial to the charities of England and Wales, that he felt unwilling to give up any portion of it until the feeling of the House should be expressed to that effect. The continuance of the third member of the Commission and of the number of inspectors were points absolutely necessary to be passed. With regard to what were called the judicial powers of the Commissioners, if hon. Members opposite were determined to fight that clause it would be necessary to make some concession in order to save such parts of the Bill as were absolutely necessary. The Bill had been submitted to the highest legal authorities, and had obtained the sanction not only of the Lord Chancellor, Lord Lyndhurst, and Lord Brougham, but also,
 1893 l.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he wished to make a statement in reference to some remarks that had been made in another place as to the appropriation of a sum of money from the Special Service Fund to the purposes of the Royal Society. It had, he understood, been alleged that such an application of any portion of the fund in question was a misappropriation of a fund specially intended for charitable purposes. He could only state what was his own impression upon the subject, and that impression was that the fund was intended to be devoted to special services and the Royal Bounty, and the proposal he made was, that if sums of money were applied through the Royal Society to discoveries, inventions, and scientific purposes of that nature, it might fairly be considered as an appropriation for special services. Of course, after such application had gone on for three or four years it might be right for the House no longer to consider it in the light of an appropriation for special service, but then, as it appeared to him, it was still a special purpose for which the Government might propose, and Parliament very properly might vote a sum of money in the Estimates. What he wished to observe, therefore, was, that it was not a misappropriation of money intended for charitable purposes, but an appropriation for a special and useful purpose to which the fund might properly be applied, for it must not be forgotten that though science had an eye that never closed and a wing that never flagged, it had not a purse that was never empty. He did not consider the appropriation an improper one, and he hoped a sum of money, not exceeding the amount which had been granted, would continue to be allowed from that or some other source for the promotion of scientific objects.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he should support the Amendment. The Charity Commission had only been in existence for a few years, and at present it was impossible to tell how far its proceedings would prove beneficial. He could not consent to the establishment of a close court for the adjudication of charity disputes. The Bill ought to have been introduced three months ago, instead of which the time of the House was wasted upon Scotch Education Bills, and Tenant Right Bills, which it was never imagined would pass.
 MR. WINN KNIGHT  said, it was his intention to move that the House go into Committee on the Bill that day three months. He did so from no feelings of animosity towards the charity Commission as at present constituted. He should be very willing to strengthen the existing powers of the Commissioners, very great as they were, but he objected to the absolute powers of control and administration which it was proposed to give them by the Bill. He admitted that the Commissioners had exercised their powers beneficially for the charities with which they had dealt; but he protested against a measure like the present being brought in at that late period of the Session, when, if it was passed, it would be done practically without consulting the House of Commons. The Bill would give power to upset the foundation of every charity, and put them wholly in the hands of the Commissioners. The powers proposed to be given to the Commissioners under the Bill, were, he contended, almost unconstitutionally extensive, the whole of the enormous funds of the charities were at the disposition of the trustees, and there was no security for their safety provided in the Bill. Now, he did object, at that late period of the Session, to a change which would give the Commissioners absolute authority over the whole of the charities of England. He looked upon the Bill as totally unconstitutional, both in its general principle and in many of its details. By its provisions the will of every founder of a charity was upset, and the whole power over and management of 35,000,000 l. 1880 1881 l. 1882
 MR. I. BUTT  said, if the Bill was allowed to expire, they would have no restriction on the people of Ireland acquiring arms. Since the Union there had been only one year in which there had not been an Act to prevent the people acquiring arms. In 1846 an Arms Bill was introduced, containing some objectionable provisions. The argument was urged that Ireland was tranquil, and the Bill was withdrawn. The result was that persons went about selling arms, and the Government could not prevent it, and many disturbances followed. He did not think that that example would justify them in adopting a similar course. As long as tranquillity was preserved, the Bill was a dead letter, and he believed there was no inconvenience attending the Bill. He thought, instead of renewing the Bill, next year Government should bring in a permanent Bill to prevent the people of Ireland arming.
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, that next Session he would move for a Select Committee to consider what public measures might be adopted for the advancement of science. The Royal Society did not consider the sum in question a charitable grant, but money given in aid and for the promotion of science. He thought it right to say that the grant was a spontaneous act of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London.
 MR. BRADY  said, he thought the House had had sufficient proof of late of the serious effects of hasty legislation, having had to retrace its own steps in consequence of the tumult which it excited.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought that it would have been more instructive if the hon. and learned Gentleman, instead of lecturing the House upon its great waste of time, had endeavoured to enlighten them upon some of those matters to which their attention had been called by the hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Mr. Cairns). If the measure before the House were, as
 1888 l., l. l., 1889 l. s. l,, 1890
 MR. WIGRAM  said, there were three points which were specially objected to by hon. Gentlemen on his the Opposition side of the House—first, the appointment of local inspectors; next, the twelfth clause, which gave power to the Commissioners to proceed  ex parte;
 MR. BAINES  said, that the real principle of the Bill was contained in the first two clauses under which a certain summary jurisdiction was given to magistrates of dealing with small offences, instead of their being sent to quarter sessions or assizes. He might, as Chairman of the Select Committee to which the Bill was referred, be permitted to state that every care was taken to surround the exercise of the new jurisdiction which was given under the Bill with every safeguard, so as to make it work in as unexceptionable a manner as possible. With regard to the constitutional propriety of the Bill, he would only state that Lord Brougham had expressed an opinion as to the great importance of the measure, and that the Lord Chief Justice Campbell had congratulated grand juries on the probability of a Bill of the nature of the one before them being passed during the present Session.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, it was deeply to be regretted that the Bill had not received a more extended discussion. He was of opinion that cases of petty larceny might be safely dealt with by summary jurisdiction; but he objected to that portion of the Bill, which made all stealing above the value of 5 s. 1873 employés l.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he was glad to hear the real author of the Bill avow himself. If they applied the provisions of the Act to the Orange processions in the north of Ireland it would suppress those processions most effectually. Government had made no case at all for the Bill.
 MR. MALINS  said, he should also support the suggestion of the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley). The Solicitor General had complained of the inadequate powers of the Act of 1853, but when that Bill came under discussion there was no disinclination on the part of Parliament to grant all the powers which the Government thought were necessary. But even the Commissioners, in their Report, although some of them asked for greater powers, did not say their present powers were insufficient to carry into effect the main objects of the Act of 1853. The power of dismissing offending schoolmasters and schoolmistresses, which the Bill purported to confer, had been already exercised by the Commissioners under the existing Act. It was, however, proposed now for the first time to create new judicial powers. It might be expedient, perhaps, to create those powers; but if such a step was to be taken, it should only be on the most deliberate consideration. It should be remembered that the measure affected no less than 27,000 trusts, and property of a large annual value; it was, almost impossible the discussion could be too protracted; and if four hours had been occupied in debate upon the principle of the Bill, what prospect was there of getting through the fifty-six clauses, with Amendments on more than thirty of them, so as to close Parliament on Saturday? Was the House prepared to erect a new judicial tribunal, in which A would write a letter of complaint against B, the Commissioners would write to B, informing him of the complaint, but not of the party making it, B would send his answer to the Commissioners, and the Commissioners would come to a decision without bringing the parties face to face, or communicating the grounds upon which their decision rested? Such a secret tribunal as that could never give satisfaction, and should never receive his approval. Even with such men as the Lord Chancellor, the Master of the Rolls, and the Vice Chancellor, he preferred having judgment given in public, for when the eyes of the profession and of the public were withdrawn there was danger of the judge being sway-
 1892
 MR. KENNEDY  said, he should support the Amendment, considering that the Bill was inapplicable to the present circumstances of Ireland. Its very preamble set forth a state of things which did not now exist; and he declined to endorse a falsehood.
 MR. KENNEDY  said, he would second the Amendment, as he believed the Bill would be most mischievous and disastrous in its effect, and would give a very unjust impression as to the administration of law in the country.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he hoped Government would yield to the appeal that had been made to them, and withdraw the Bill. There had been excuses made for the Bill on former occa-
 1895
 MR. BARROW  said, he felt serious objections to proceeding with a Bill of such importance in so small a House as they then had, and at a period of the Session when it was impossible to consider it with the attention which it demanded.
 MR. BARROW  said, he was anxious, where it could be avoided, that no persons should be made an inmate of a gaol before his conviction; but there were cases for which bail could not be taken; and his experience of prisons was such that he was anxious the Bill should pass. It was attempted to separate prisoners before trial from prisoners convicted by solitary confinement; but he could not think that that was just to the accused. Neither did he think that trials at quarter sessions, conducted as they were, much improved the prisoners. On those grounds, therefore, he supported the Bill, though he thought the subject was one which ought to have had a longer discussion in that House. The Bill, however, had been some time before Parliament, and the public were, therefore, aware that a change was contemplated in the law. The questions of expense and time lost to the prosecutors and the jury were, in his opinion, of considerable consequence in estimating the value of the Bill.
 MR. MICHELL  said, the only fault he found with the Bill was, that its provisions were not large enough; and if the management of all the charities were vested in the Commissioners, he considered it would be a vast improvement. From what he had seen of them, he had no doubt the Commissioners would work them all satisfactorily, and they might well have a judicial power conferred upon them, to do that for which the Court of Chancery was now resorted to, at a cost ruinous to small charities.
 MR. BOWYER  said, there was nothing in the circumstances of Ireland to justify such a measure, as, by the admission of the right hon. Secretary for Ireland himself, there was neither crime nor outrage in that country. The Irish soldiery were freely shedding their blood in the war in which we were now engaged, and surely it was a small boon to ask that their country should be placed on an equality with the other parts of the Empire. He should move that the Bill be committed that day three months.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he hoped the House would consent to go into Committee on the Bill, especially as he thought there had been an understanding that that course was to be taken—and that if the provisions of the Bill required more consideration than could be given to them, it should then be postponed till next Session. By the first part of the Bill it was proposed to continue the third Commissioner, the
 1883 l. l.
 MR. CAIRNS  said, he must deny that it had been understood that there should be no discussion on the Order of the Day forgoing into Committee. [Sir G. GREY said, he must beg to explain; what he had intended to say was that the Bill should go into Committee for consideration.] It was a complete delusion to suppose, as the right hon. Baronet appeared to do, that the Bill would diminish the expenses of charity proceedings. His chief objection to the Bill, however, at that moment was, that the period was too late for considering a measure which affected no less than 24,000 out of the 28,000 charities of the kingdom. By one of its provisions it was proposed to give the Charity Commissioners power to appoint local inspectors, instead of sending down the London inspectors belonging to the Board, and all the expenses of those local inspectors during the time of their inquiries, were to be paid by the charity under inquiry. Charities which were at present under the control of the Court of Chancery would not by the present Bill be exempted from that control, and he wished to point out to the House that, whereas in that respect the measure offered no advantage, it would be productive of great inconvenience, because, while it gave to the Commissioners the power of exercising every possible function which appertained to a charitable trust, it in no way provided for the manner in which that power should be exercised. He wished to know if the administrative functions which the Bill would confer upon the Commissioners were to be exercised in
 1884
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  said, he rose to move that the Bill be read a third time that day three months. If he wanted a justification for the course he now took, he should find it in the fact that the Bill, though dealing with a great constitutional question, and effecting extensive changes in the criminal judicature of the country, had advanced to a third reading in that House without any discussion whatever on its principle, It came down from the Lords in February, and was rend a second time, without debate, on the 26th of March; it was then referred to a Select Committee on the 23rd of April; that Committee made their Report on the 24th of May; the Report was considered, after midnight, on the 25th of June; and now the Bill came on to be read a third time on the 6th of August. It was not within the scope of a Select Committee to decide upon the principle of a Bill; they had, however, in the measure now before the House, dealt rather largely, for they had cut it in half, retaining one half and rejecting the other. All previous reforms of
 1867 1868 s. 1869 certiorari 1870
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, he hoped that some Member of the Government would inform the House whether it was intended to adopt the suggestion which had been made to proceed only with
 1891
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he would second the Amendment. It was in his opinion impossible, at that period of the Session, to give to the measure that amount of consideration which the importance of the subject with which it dealt demanded at their hands. The operation of the Charity Commission had been, he must confess, in many instances very beneficial; but he objected to the granting of powers which would supersede the trustees of all the charities in England.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, he thought if the measure was desirable for small charities, it was equally desirable for large ones. He would urge upon the Government the propriety of acceding to the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he thought it would be more convenient, when they had come to an agreement upon the point of principle, to discuss matters of detail in Committee on the Bill. His right hon. Friend (Mr. Henley) said that the twelfth clause ought not to receive the sanction of Parliament, not with standing it had been approved of by the four great legal authorities referred to; and considering the few days remaining for discussion, his hon. and learned Friend (the Attorney General) was willing to give up that portion of the Bill. That assertion of principle having been made, he should hope the House would now agree to go into Committee without further discussing the details.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, it was impossible to continue the grant out of the fund from which it had been hitherto de-
 1875 l.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : With regard to the question of the hon. Baronet, as to the increase of the unfunded debt, I would merely refer him to the facts which I mentioned on a former occasion, and which showed that the amount at which the unfunded debt would stand, even if increased to the full extent which is proposed by this Bill, would not be so very considerable when compared with the amount at which it stood not only during the late war, but for a considerable period after the termination of that war. No doubt a sum of 17,000,000 l. l. l. l. 1928 d. per diem, d., d. per diem. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1929 l., l., l. l., l. l. l. l., l. l.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  having moved the third reading of the Consolidated Fund (Appropriation) Bill,
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said: Sir, I rise to speak upon this Bill, and not only to refer to the subject to which I yesterday stated that I should call the attention of the House, but likewise to speak for some minutes, at least, upon the prospects which we have before us. I do not wish either to diminish or to aggravate the responsibility of Her Majesty's Government; but I think it worth while to notice that there never was a Government in this country which had a more responsible task before them, or which, on approaching the interval between the sittings of Parliament, were likely to have so many grave questions brought under their consideration. We have heard from the hon. Baronet who has spoken upon the last Bill, that more than 49,000,000 l. l., l. l. l. 1931 1932 1933 1934 1935 1936 1937 1938
 MR. WILKINSON  trusted the noble Viscount would forgive him, if before the noble Viscount replied to the noble Lord, he (Mr. Wilkinson) offered a few observations from an independent Member upon the speech which they had just heard. The reputation of the noble Lord belonged to the House and to the country, and everything which fell from him could not but be of importance. Yet he (Mr. Wilkinson) could scarcely understand the drift of the noble Lord's speech. The noble Lord urged upon Her Majesty's Government an interference in the affairs of Italy; no doubt the sympathies of the people of this country were with the Italians, the Poles, and the Hungarians, but it did not appear to him (Mr. Wilkinson) that the present was the fitting time to call upon the Government for active interference, although certainly the Government should not be unmindful of the position of those countries, and the noble Viscount might well reply to the appeal of the noble Lord, in the words of Hector to Andromache—
 "That post shall be my care, Nor that alone, but all the posts of war." 1940 not 1941
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I do
 1942 1943 1944 1945 1946 1947 1948 1949 1950
 MR. HENLEY : I hope, Sir, the noble Lord may not prove to be too sanguine in his expectation that on the reassembling of Parliament he will be able to render an account of the proceedings of the Government which will be satisfactory to the House and to the country. For my own part, I ardently trust that that account may be satisfactory, and may redound to the
 1951
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I beg the right hon. Gentleman's pardon, but I do not remember saying a word about Hun-
 1952
 MR. HENLEY : The noble Lord says his observations were confined to Poland, and no doubt that country was enlarged upon as his greatest point. However, the noble Lord afterwards fell into a peaceable mood, and the House certainly did not find him drawing a very sanguine picture of the prospects of the country with regard to the war. He said but little, but that little was not calculated to lead us to believe that the noble Lord's opinion was a very sanguine one with regard to the success of the war; and having that opinion, the noble Lord suggests a very odd way of helping us out of our difficulties. He suggests, on the one hand, that he would have been better pleased if the whole of his opinions that are on record in the Foreign Office had been laid before the House, leading us to infer that the country is not now in possession of all those facts that would enable it to come to a sound judgment on the matter; and, on the other hand, he suggests—what certainly is of great importance, because the noble Lord the First Minister admits that in this particular the noble Lord the Member for London had better opportunities of forming an opinion than anybody else—he suggests that it was possible Turkey might have been quite satisfied with one of the arrangements that had been proposed, and that, if this were so, ordinary justice required that instead of granting a loan to Turkey we should supply her with subsidies. Now, when the noble Lord makes a suggestion of that kind, with the consequence which he infers from it, people are naturally led to suppose that he has stated what was his own impression, because men do not usually draw inferences of that kind unless their own minds have arrived at a definite opinion on the subject. Passing from these matters, the noble Lord, as if things were not complicated enough, had recourse to his historical recollections, and pointed to operations of various kinds which the noble Lord at the head of the Government has had to do with in other parts of the world, and not unnaturally he thought of Italy. Here is a nice matter, he no doubt thought to himself, to take up when it is convenient to be in the warlike mood again—Poland does not answer the purpose well, it is out of reach—but here are fresh nationalities in Italy. The noble Lord now at the head of the Government is well known to have performed certain
 1953 1954 1955
 MR. STAFFORD,  in moving for an Address for Copies of Returns respecting the Naval and Military Hospitals in the East, said, that one of the first debates of this Session was an eager and anxious debate with reference to the subject he was now about to bring forward; and it was occasioned by accounts which had reached this country from the Crimea relating to the sufferings of our army there and on the Bosphorus, and from a deep desire that the sick and wounded of our army should have every protection afforded them in the hospitals at Scutari and elsewhere. The result was a division, which dismissed the existing Government by one of the largest majorities on record. Six months had passed since that discussion, in which no allusion was made to the nature and objects of the war, but which emphatically confined itself to the conduct of the war; and now that party debates were over, and the Session was about to close, it was not too much to ask the Government for a statement of what had been done to redress the grievances then brought forward, and to ameliorate the evils which were then alleged to exist; seeing that it was on those conditions of redress and amelioration that they ex-
 1956 The Times. The Times. 1957 "He would express himself freely on the various topics which had been brought under his notice, and was glad to avail himself of the present opportunity." "It was impossible for him to state how often he had made requisitions for medicines and medical comforts in vain. His sick asked for soup, &c., and expressed some impatience; but few of them would have been impatient had they had proper food and clothing. He was three hundred blankets short at a time when the thermometer was at 26; rum, which was so necessary, was not forthcoming when wanted; the issue of meat was very irregular, and on Christmas-day it was issued so late that it could not, along with the coffee, be cooked. On the 28th December they were forced to return as a working party to the trenches; as they could not cook their food, they must have been two days without meat, unless they ate it raw." "Much of the suffering of the troops in the trenches was horrible, owing to the apathy and neglect of the authorities; and that of the sick and wounded equally so." "That his men had been on salt provisions and raw coffee for three weeks; a great proportion of the sickness was caused by the imperfect preparation of the coffee; the men had no means of cooking, and were ill-fed and overworked." 1958 "There was great difficulty in getting any medical comforts; he was unable during the prevalence of cholera to get a drop of brandy, though he made a special report on the subject." "About a month ago Dr. Smith's cots were issued, but they had no framework and no feet, and were quite useless. Previously to that there were no beds or bedding; there were blankets, but not enough to provide one for each man. The consequence was, that they were soon saturated with mud, and in that severe weather there was no alternative for patients suffering from cholera and dysentery but to lie on the wet ground." "He had formed a table out of a discarded pork barrel, which had actually been borrowed by Mr. Bostock for an amputating table." "I went in daily to the landing place to see the principal medical officer. On my telling him how we were situated as regarded medicines, comforts, &c., I was informed that 'I was making difficulties.' I replied, 'Those of the Light Division never make difficulties.' He then said, 'Make a requisition.' Dr. Pine, who was present, asked him, 'If one were made, could the same be complied with?' when it was elicited that some supplies were on board some ship, but where she was was quite another thing. With a sick list of 636 of cholera, dysentery, diarrhœa, fever, &c., on the 1st of December, four ounces of opium, and the same of calomel, were issued for the division, which was three doses of one grain of each of these two medicines to each patient." "That the subordinate medical officers were deterred from making requisitions for what they needed by their superior officers." "The training of a set of men something like those in the French service, who should be under the surgeons, and be taught how to use a tourniquet, and to place a fractured limb in an easy position till the surgeons could attend to the patient." "That every medical officer should be independent of his neighbour, and have his own packhorse and panniers for the conveyance of what he required; as it was, the supplies of the different medical men were broken in upon, as the staff
 1959 "The deputy inspectors and staff surgeons of divisions appear to possess no power whatever. If, for instance, they send an indent to the Commissariat for straw for the patients to lie upon, or for carriage, it is most probably refused. The surgeon must then try to obtain these and similar things through another channel—through the commanding officer of the regiment, who refers it to the assistant quartermaster general of the division, who forwards it to the quartermaster general of the army. It is this perpetual travelling to and fro of requisitions from one department to another—the furnishing of some portion of hospital diet by the Commissariat, and another, including medical comforts, by the purveyor, that creates the delay and embarrassment prevailing at present. Unless the medical board is reconstructed on a basis of greater authority and independence as regards the procuring of carriage, of hospital accommodation, furniture, and utensils, and unless it is provided with an efficient staff of purveyors, clerks, and apothecaries, present on the spot where the army is encamped, or in quarters in the field, the unfortunate scenes of misery and destitution, and consequent loss of life, such as I have witnessed among the sick in the camp during the inclement weather of the last six weeks, will inevitably, under similar circumstances, again occur." nil. 1960 l. 1961 l. l. s. d. l. 1962 Britannia, 1963 "Address for Copies of any Reports from the
 1964 "Returns from the Naval Hospital at Therapia; stating the number of Sailors admitted, the number discharged, and the number who have died; distinguishing the diseases and wounds: "Copies of any Reports made by Sir John M'Neill or other Commissioners, in reference to the sanitary condition of the Camp in the Crimea: "And, of any Communications on the health of the Army in the Crimea to the Commander in Chief from the Inspector General there."
 MR. FREDERICKPEEL  said, he would endeavour, as concisely as he could, to afford the information which the hon. Member asked, at least on the more important points. There were two prominent cases for which Dr. Hall had been held responsible—that of Mr. Stowe, and the case alluded to by "An Army Surgeon" in  The Times. The Times 1965 1966 1967 "Having just returned from Constantinople, where I have inspected the hospitals at Scutari and Kululee, I lose no time in sending to your Lordship the following general report on their present condition. Speaking generally, the barrack and general hospitals at Scutari, and the
 1968 1969
 COLONEL NORTH  hoped the attention of the Government would be directed to the painful position of many officers of the army, who had arrived in this country from the seat of war sick and wounded. Some time ago he asked whether the Government had taken any steps towards hiring houses for the accommodation of such persons. They all knew that the pay of a subaltern officer was so small that it was quite impossible he could afford to hire lodgings in the metropolis, and yet such
 1970
 MR. STAFFORD  observed that he had not stated he had received any complaints on the part of the civilian surgeons with regard to the rate of their pay. He regretted that the hon. Gentleman had not alluded to the state of the transport service, and that he had said nothing as to the intention of the Government to bestow any honours or decorations on the medical department of the army. He would strike out from his Motion that part of it which related to the Reports of Sir J. M'Neill.
 MR. BRIGHT  did not rise either for the purpose of replying at length to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman or of condemning anything he had done as President of the Board of Control. The speech of the right hon. Gentleman seemed to him more than commonly interesting, and it had been delivered in a manner which the House would know how to appreciate. He began by explaining how it was this great question was brought forward for discussion at this period of the Session, and here the right hon. Gentleman's argument was inconclusive, for surely the Government could, without much difficulty, fix
 1989 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1990 l. l. l. l. l. l. Friend of India, "The cash balances are still enormously in excess of the actual needs of the State. They cannot long remain so. India for the first time in thirty years, has a surplus revenue. If peace continues the accumulative process will rapidly proceed, the 3½ per cent loan will fill, and the Government, oppressed with a plethora of resources must take at least one more step in advance." 1991 "With respect to money there is and can be no permanent difficulty. Whether shares are or are not at a premium at home does not signify one jot. The supply required can be raised in this country. In the last resort, should English capitalists decline five per cent, and natives refuse the Company's guarantee, there is a balance of 16,000,000 l. The Times l. 1992 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1993 l. l. l. l. l. l. Friend of India, l. l. l. l. 1994 Friend of India Friend of India 1995 l. l. 1996 l. l. l. l. 1997 1998 1999
 SIR JAMES HOGG  said, that the hon. Member for Manchester commenced his speech by stating that it was not his intention to make a personal attack either on the Government or the Court of Directors. He then dwelt on the subject of Indian finance, which he said could only be in a prosperous state in a time of peace; but he soon waxed so warm, so virulent, so personal, that any one coming into the House would have thought that the hon. Member was descanting on the blessings of peace. Whenever the question of India arose, the hon. Member made a personal attack not only on the conduct but on the motives of those whose duty it was to take part in the government of that country. The hon. Member had alluded to the appointments and emoluments which he (Sir J. W. Hogg) had held and received in India; such allusions were surely not very usual nor very seemly, but he had an honourable pride in telling the Member for Manchester that he was indebted to no patronage or favour for the independence he possessed—that he proceeded to India without any appointment, and dependant solely on his own exertions. He had, perhaps, as great practice at the Calcutta Bar and was in as large professional receipts as any man of his age and standing ever had at any Bar. He accepted office, because his health began to fail, and he did so for ease and at a sacrifice of income.
 2000 participes criminis. 2001 "From the evidence which has been brought before us we have been obliged to come to the conclusion that personal violence has been practised by native revenue collectors and police
 2002 2003 Friend of India l. l. l. 2004 l. l. l. l. l. l. 2005 l. l. 2006
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  thought the hon. Baronet had succeeded in placing the subject of the loan upon a different footing from that on which it was left by the hon. Member for Manchester; but, with regard to the question of torture, the hon. Baronet had endeavoured to gloss over statements which should make the blood of every man tingle with indignation. The following was from the pen of the Commissioners themselves—
 "Among the principal tortures in vogue in police cases we find—twisting a rope round the entire arm or leg so as to impede circulation, lifting up by the mustachios, suspending by the arms while tied behind the back, searing with hot irons, placing insects on the navel, the scrotum, or other most sensitive parts, dropping in wells and rivers until half drowned, putting pepper and chili into the eyes, or introducing them into the private parts of men and women." 2007 d. gabelle 2008
 MR. OTWAY  said, that before he referred to the question of torture he must express his regret at the tendency to annex the territories of native princes which had of late developed itself. If they had only a return of the annexations made under Lord Dalhousie, he had no doubt they would find that they exceeded all those which had been made by the five or six Governor Generals preceding him. The remarks of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. V. Smith) with respect to Oude were also somewhat ominous. He (Mr. Otway) was afraid that the Governor General had already his eye upon that territory; but he trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would give him a strong intimation that its annexation would not be a policy that would meet with his approbation. He hoped that, if better feelings did not prevail, a regard to such authorities as Sir Thomas Munro, the Duke of Wellington, and other great Indian statesmen, would deter the Government from a course which would be detrimental to the interests of this country. With regard to the question of public works, he noticed a very wide discrepancy between the figures of Sir Charles Wood and Mr. Grant. Sir Charles Wood stated the outlay for public works at 3.152,000 l. l, 2009 2010
 MR. HENLEY  tendered his thanks to the hon. Member for Poole (Mr. Danby Seymour) for having brought this subject to the knowledge of the House and the country; for until he did that, he believed that scarcely anybody in this country had any knowledge of it. Another matter had also come painfully out in consequence of this inquiry, that those parties who had had long experience in India must now be
 2011
 SIR JAMES HOGG  explained that he did not say that missionaries and Europeans did not know of it. He gave the words of the Commissioners, who expressed their surprise that so few of the Europeans and civilians knew of it.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  entirely concurred in the expression of gratitude which had been used with regard to his hon. Friend the Member for Poole for the information which he had afforded the Government upon the subject, and he had no doubt that the Government on the spot and the home Government would spare no effort to put a stop to such practices. With respect to the statements of the hon. Member for Manchester, it was obvious that they referred to another period as regarded the actual expenditure on civil works. He (Sir Charles Wood) stated the average expenditure on civil new works in 1852 at 700,000 l. l,
 MR. BRIGHT  said the figures might be made to agree, but it would be by including things which were not strictly public works.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the discrepancy was none; because for Mr. Grant's purpose all money for repairs, as well as for new works, was included. The hon. Gentleman said the statement of Indian finance on the subject of the loan made by him (Sir Charles Wood) was intended to deceive the House. There was no use in talking of the balances, as they varied. That in April, 1853, was 15,500,000 l. l.
 Mr. WHITE SIDE  wished to say a few words on the administration of justice in India. The right hon. Baronet (Sir C. Wood) on a former occasion said that the appointment of a Commission on judicial establishments in India was about to be followed up, but he had not heard that anything had been done. While Englishmen and Scotchmen were selected for judicial offices, Irishmen seemed to be systematically excluded. If a pamphlet which had been sent to him, containing the judgment of the inferior courts, reported them truly, it was no wonder that so many of their decisions were reversed in the superior courts, for such a farrago of folly, ignorance, and absurdity he had never read.
 MR. MANGLES  said, it might have been the case that torture had been inflicted by native police officers in India in order
 2013
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  was sorry to find that the statements he had made in this House last year on the subject of torture had turned out to be well founded, and he had found upon inquiry that there appeared to be some some sort of understanding on the subject between the officials and the collectors. He thought there were various circumstances which justified the statement of his right hon. Friend that he could not wholly exculpate the civil servants in this matter. The Government had neglected reports which had called their attention to the infliction of torture, and when cases had been brought before the Judges in the Presidency of Madras they had failed to administer that severe punishment which would have been likely to prevent a repetition of the offence. With regard to the Native servants, they were extremely underpaid, and he thought a great deal might be done to improve their character and their position. As to the loan, there certainly had been no intention to deceive on the part of the Government of India; but he admitted that they were to a certain extent liable to blame for having allowed themselves to be taken by sur-
 2014
 MR. BROTHERTON  withdrew his Motion.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, the Bill was one of those which had passed the House very quietly, having only been delivered to Members the day preceding, when it was also read a second time, though it proposed to add 7,000,000 l. l., l. l. l. l., l. l., l. 1926 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l., l. l., l., l. l., l. l., l. l. l., l. l. 1927 l. l.
 MR. FERGUSON  said, he could mention that a similar case occurred in Carlisle, where consecration was refused because the division proposed was a foot-path.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he would willingly agree to the clause, if it effected the object it had in view; but as it would not do so he could not support it.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he must oppose the clause, considering that it was most objectionable, and introducing a principle utterly unknown to the law of England.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said,
 2019
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, the Act had never been really applicable to any portion of Ireland. It was imposed upon districts in which no outrage bad ever been committed. To pass year after year a strong measure of that kind was not the way to prevent disorder in Ireland.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, Sir Thomas Wilson's Bill was rejected in consequence of a report from the Judges to the effect that what he proposed to do was inconsistent with family settlements. If the Bill had been refused on the ground that the inclosure of his own land would interfere with Hampstead Heath, then the refusal would have been most unjust; but he thought that the principle on which the present clause was founded was correct. He, however, agreed that, where an application to Parliament only failed through an accident, then the Court of Chancery should not be prevented from considering the case, and he should, therefore, propose that the clause should be amended so as to confine its application to cases where Parliament, after exercising its judgment, had refused the application.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that, as to divide the Committee in its present state would only lead to an adjournment, by which the other business on the paper would be thrown over, it would be better to report progress.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he should support the clause. The Home Office would only have to interpose in a few cases. In some places there was so strong a feeling against consecration as almost amounted to ridicule. The Dissenters would have no objection, however, to all grave yards being consecrated, if their ministers were permitted to read service over their dead. As it was, some clergymen of the Church of England objected to the body of a Dissenter being carried over consecrated ground.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, the Government were willing to yield to a suggestion made by hon. Gentlemen opposite, and to limit the continuance of the Bill to the 1st of July next, instead of the 31st of August.
 MR. WINN KNIGHT  said, that Sir Thomas Wilson's application had nothing whatever to do with Hampstead Heath, but had reference to some grass fields in the neighbourhood of the Finchley Road; and there was no reason why that land should not be built on, except the interest of some neighbouring proprietors. There was no justice in such a clause as the present, excluding a particular individual from the benefit of the Bill.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, the clause was a very modest one. If a better could be introduced hon. Members ought to introduce it, and thereby put an end to ecclesiastical vagaries, such as the House had heard stated. He hoped the clause would be pressed to a division.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he thought that the Court of Chancery ought not to have the power of overriding the decision of Parliament, which would be the effect of the Bill. If the clause was struck out, upon the application of Sir Thomas Wilson to have the benefit of the Bill, no one could appear before the Judge in Equity to oppose on behalf of the public; the application to do so would fail, for nobody could have a  locus standi. sub silentio.
 MR. BELL  said, he should support the clause, for in reality the grievance was a Churchman's, and not a Dissenter's grievance.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he should move the omission of the clause. He wished to know whether it was consistent with justice, that in the event of an application being made to the Lords, and assented to by them, the present Bill Should never operate with respect to that application, if, by some accident the assent of the Commons had not been obtained to it? There would be neither sense nor reason in such an enactment, which would imply that Parliament could not trust the Court of Chancery, to which it gave great powers in other cases, to judge whether in a particular instance it ought not, on facts which had satisfied the House of Lords, to consider the matter. It was impossible to comprehend that principle. He did not mean to say that there should be an appeal
 2021
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he should support the clause. The distinction was not made for the sake of decency, but for the sake of intolerance.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the clause would only make "confusion worse confounded," and he would not envy the Secretary of State his employment in the recess, should it pass, that of inquiring into the fitting fence and boundaries of all the church-yards in England. He (Mr. Henley) did not see what difference could arise on the subject of fences, as all that was requisite was that the distinction demanded by law should be permanently preserved; and whatever fence effected that object was, in his opinion, the best for the purpose.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he trusted that the Government would consent to omit a clause which would only have the effect of placing the magistrates In an invidious position.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that some of those family settlements endured for forty years, and that a proposition made at one period during that term might be objectionable, and yet at another period, under altered circumstances, very proper and deserving of consideration. He consequently thought that the clause should be so altered as to allow an application to the Court of Chancery after the lapse of a certain time.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he agreed to a certain extent that the Bill was an anomalous one; but considering the evil it was intended to meet, he was of opinion that it was a wise and judicious one. As to the clause proposed, he thought it would be of the greatest injury to the prisoner.
 MR. WIGRAM  said, all consecrated burial-grounds were open to Dissenters; the only difference being that the Dissenters required their own ministers to pray over them. He (Mr. Wigram) was, however, of opinion that so long as there was an Established Church it was only right that the authorised officers of that Church should perform the authorised service for the dead. The separation was required for the sake of decency.
 MR. BAINES  said, he was of opinion that the objections of the hon. and learned Member for Wexford (Mr. M 'Mahon) were to a certain extent well founded. In very clear and trifling cases he thought they ought not to subject the prisoner to a long imprisonment before trial, but they ought to give summary jurisdiction to the magistrates in such cases. But he thought the offence of embezzlement ought to be omitted from the clause. The case which was now occupying so much attention was, as he understood, a charge of embezzlement by bankers of securities. It was quite clear that was a case that ought not to be tried by a magistrate. Then, with regard to the next offence named—false pretences, the distinction was sometimes very fine, and he thought it better that that should be omitted. But he thought it desirable to retain the power in eases of larceny by servants, and also in cases of obtaining property from masters. Take the case of female servants. It often happened that a female servant was had up for having in her possession a small amount of property belonging to her master, and he had often thought it a cruel thing that there was no summary power in such cases, but that the girl was sent to prison, where she remained some time, before trial, and the consequence was that the poor girl was too generally ruined. He thought, if they allowed summary jurisdiction in such cases, they would do substantial justice, which was at they could accomplish; and, after all, in a matter of this nature, the consideration
 2020
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he should now move in Clause 3 to leave out, "or larceny as a clerk or servant, or embezzlement, or obtaining property by false pretences, or attempting to obtain property by false pretences." By the clause, as it at present stood, power was given to magistrates at petty sessions to adjudicate in cases for which at present the punishment was transportation for life, a power which the quarter sessions did not possess; and he thought they ought not to have the power in the cases to which his Amendment applied.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he should, in lieu of the clause that had just been negatived, move to substitute the following clause—
 "And, for the discouragement of frivolous and vexatious informations and prosecutions under this Act, be it enacted, that it shall be lawful for any justices or court of petty sessions before
 2018 1.,
 MR. MALINS  said, he objected to giving a power to the Secretary of State to override the authority of the Bishop) which, so long as there was an Established and Episcopal Church in England, ought to be maintained. There was a very strong feeling among a large class of persons with regard to burial in consecrated ground, and although personally he had no feeling on the subject himself, and had no desire to carry what was called intolerance beyond the grave, he should vote against the clause.
 MR. MALINS  said, he thought the Court of Chancery might be safely entrusted to exercise a jurisdiction in the matter. The clause was directed against Sir Thomas Wilson, and if he should apply
 2022
 MR. SPOONER  said, he was opposed to the first part of the clause, but trusted that the latter part, requiring the publicity of applications, would be retained.
 MR. SPOONER  said, that he could not agree to the clause as proposed by the noble Lord, but would assent to a clause giving to the burial boards (subject to the approval of the Secretary of State) the power of deciding whether the consecrated
 2017
 MR. BARROW  said, he could not vote for the clause, because he thought it would give offence to a large portion of the community to legalise the  quasi
 MR. BARROW  said, he should be sorry to see the clause altogether struck out. If the punishment were limited to three months, it would prevent the Magistrates adjudicating in serious cases.
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, he did not see why, as all met in the grave, there should be any attempt to make a distinction between the dead. The adoption of the clause would show the feeling of the House against such obstructive demarcation; and he (Mr.
 2016
 MR. WATSON  said, he should support the Amendment. The clause was opposed to the general object of the Bill. Besides, magistrates were already empowered to try in cases of larceny to the amount of 5 s.,
 MR. WATSON  said, he considered the tendency of such a clause would be to introduce an injurious element into the administration of the law, though he would admit that the question as to the propriety of compensating prisoners in cases of malicious or vexatious prosecutions was well worthy of consideration at some future period. He further thought that the principle on which the Bill itself was founded was bad; and that, although we were much indebted to the magistracy for the zealous and conscientious manner in which they discharged their duties, the country could scarcely have confidence in them as competent persons to be intrusted with summary jurisdiction in criminal cases.
 MR. WATSON  said, he would suggest that the clause should be amended by limiting the prohibition to cases in which Bills had been rejected by Parliament on "public grounds." As it stood at present the clause was most objectionable.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the clause had been fully discussed on the Motion of the hon. Member for Carlisle (Mr. Ferguson), and the objection had been admitted by the Committee. There had been cases, no doubt, where a wall was insisted on by the Bishop as a condition of consecration; but the clause did not affect the provisions of the Bill, because if the ground remained unconsecrated the clergy could demand no fees for interments. He did not think the clause would effect the object in view, as a discretionary power should be left to the Bishop in the matter of consecration. It was, no doubt, most undesirable that those distinctions should exist; but the mode of separation required by the Act could not be decided by the clause of the noble Lord.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the difficulty would not be met by the proposition of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner), for the burial board had now the power of deciding whether the ground was sufficiently divided, but the Bishop might still refuse to consecrate, and the noble Lord admitted that he could not be forced to do so.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he thought the question of boundary ought to be left altogether to the burial board. He did not agree with the clause.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he should support the clause, as he thought the Court of Chancery ought not to have the power of adjudicating upon a subject with respect to which the Houses of Parliament had expressed an opinion.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, that as part of the clause was objected to on one ground and part on another, he would press the whole.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, the really important part of the clause was that which enacted that no clergyman of the Church of England should he liable to prosecution for performing the funeral service in unconsecrated ground. He would, with the permission of the House, move that portion of the clause alone.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to the inconvenience caused by the diversity of the arrangements required by different bishops as the condition of consecrating burial-grounds. It was his intention to move the addition of a clause providing that it should not be necessary for the burial board of any parish to do more than prove that a requisite line of demarcation had been made between the parts intended for the interment of members of the Church of England and others, and that no proceedings should be instituted against any minister of the Church of England on account of his having officiated at the interment in such ground after it had been approved
 2015
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he objected that at that late period of the Session the subject of Sir Thomas Wilson's claims should be revived and discussed. The Bill in question was a general Bill and a general object, and it ought to be so regarded. The ground on which a leasing power to Sir Thomas Wilson was refused was the construction which the Judges of the land had put upon the will of the father of Sir Thomas Wilson.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that that would be on public grounds a very good reason for refusing the powers sought by Sir Thomas Wilson, but, then, if the public wished to have his property they ought to pay for it. That was the view of the case he should always entertain whenever Sir Thomas Wilson should think proper to apply to Parliament. The 20th clause was introduced into the Bill in consequence of its being stated to him that, unless the Bill contained some clause more explicity defining the jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery, it would be impossible to carry the second reading of the Bill. His reply was, that he would not consent to any clause being introduced to give the Bill the character of a private law passed against any individual. He thought the clause contained a correct and sound principle. Whoever was of that opinion let him vote for it even though the case of Sir Thomas Wilson should be included in it; but whoever was against it, let him vote against it upon general grounds, and not in reference to the case of that gentleman. Let Sir Thomas Wilson come again to Parliament, and if the Committee should be of opinion that a tenant for life ought not to be bound by the prohibition of the will under which he claimed, and that there was ground for relieving him from that prohibition, let the House of Commons grant that specific relief. It was to Parliament, whose judgment had already been raised upon the subject, and not to a Court of Justice, that that application ought to be made.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, if
 2060
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : Sir, I will not detain the House at any length, because it occurs to me that the arguments which have been adduced for and against the Motion before it, have been fully sufficient to enable the House to arrive at a right decision; and, moreover, were I to enter into detail of my own views and opinions they would approach in many particulars to a recapitulation of those already spoken. If the hon. and gallant Member for Bath determine to press his Motion to a division, I shall be found in the same lobby with him, satisfied, as I am, that if a Committee were appointed the decision would be beneficial to the service, and most certainly could not be injurious. The First Lord of the Admiralty had said that any man would be a public benefactor who would devise a means by which the present system of patronage could be got rid of, and it occurred to him (Admiral Walcott) that he could point out a means by which a more beneficial system could be introduced—namely, by constituting the Naval Lords of the Admiralty, in fact, and reality the responsible Counsellors of their Political Chief with regard to the employment, promotion, and decorations of honour given to naval officers, as those best fitted to sympathise and to encourage, to deal gently with the disappointed, and to award justly the successful; in a word, to propose to themselves but one motive of thought and action to secure the welfare of the whole profession, and to consult without partiality for every individual member in it. If such a system were adopted great satisfaction would be given, and the service would feel full confidence that merit would be its own patron, and good, gallant, and meritorious service the only effectual recommendation to employment, promotion, and recommendation to the Sovereign for decorations of honour. The hon. and gallant Admiral, the Member for Brighton, had animadverted in terms of disparagement in the selection of a naval officer to preside at the Admiralty in the Derby Government; I cannot but regret his having done so, nor will I forbear to offer my tribute to that naval officer (the Duke of Northumberland) for the able and
 2083
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether any Address had been presented to Her Majesty praying for the revival of Convocation, and whether any answer had been given to such Address: and if he had any objection to lay copies of the same on the table of the House?
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  objected to the alteration, and thought it far better that the Board should elect their own Chairman as originally proposed.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, he must deny being under the influence of popular clamour on the present occasion, as no tumultuous meetings had taken place
 2059
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he was prepared to do full justice to the motives of the hon. and gallant Gentleman in bringing such a subject under the consideration of the House. But, while he honoured the motives which had actuated the hon. Gentleman, he was not prepared to consent to the Motion which he had brought forward. The subject into which the hon. and gallant Gentleman proposed to inquire had already been most fully considered by as able a Committee—a Committee presided over by the noble Lord the Member for Totness (Lord Seymour) as had ever been appointed. That Committee had offered certain suggestions, all of which had been carried out with the exception of one, which was that power should be given to the Government to appoint Admirals by selection instead of by seniority. If old officers were appointed to posts of authority, then the complaint was made that the talents and energy of younger men were overlooked, but if younger men were appointed, then the outcry was that the old and meritorious officers were slighted. The problem to be solved was how they could best promote the efficiency of the service, coupling that with the regard which was due to the claims of old and deserving officers. Now, no persons could form a sound opinion upon the question unless they looked at the state of the  Navy Lists 2076 2077 2078 The Times, 2079 2080 2081
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he apprehended that after the remarks of the right hon. Baronet it was very doubtful whether any progress could sbe made with the Bill that Session.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL,  said he would now move according to notice for a Select Committee to inquire into the Government of the Navy. Though the Motion was for a Committee he did not move for one in expectation that it would be operative during the present Session, but in the hope that one would be appointed next Session. His object was not to detail individual cases, but to attack the system. There were present three right hon. Gentlemen, who had held the office of First Lord of the Admiralty, and all of them must be convinced that the system of promotion at the Admiralty was not satisfactory, and that the pressure of political influence clogged the dispensation of patronage in a way which he hoped they could not approve. For his part, he had long condemned it, and he defied the Government to show that during the time he had occupied a seat in that House he had ever asked for the smallest favour. He might observe that there were in that House only ten or eleven sailors, while there were upwards of a hundred military and militia officers, and about as many lawyers, and he thought naval officers ought to be allowed to call attention to any defects which, in their opinion, existed in that branch of the public service with which they were connected. He was afraid that many hon. Gentlemen advocated Administrative Reform only with respect to the civil service; but such reform was at least as much required in the military and naval services. Within the last four or five years there had been four First Lords of the Admiralty, so that it was impossible the gentlemen who occupied so important a position could have acquainted themselves fully with the duties of the department, or have carried out on an extensive scale any of those reforms which were so much needed. There were at present
 2070 2071 "He saw no reason whatever why we should apply to the navy rules different from those which were acted upon with reference to the sister service; so far from it, he was of opinion that everything should be done to make the navy as efficient as possible." 2072 s. 2073 d. 2074
 MR. I. BUTT  said, there was a general power in the Bill to tenants for lives to lease for twenty-one years, and Sir Thomas Wilson was not exempted from it. He (Mr. I. Butt) would never have consented to a personal exception, as in the case of Sir Thomas Wilson, only that a public principle was involved in it. The Bill was the last of a series of Estates Bills, and the question was, whether the case should be decided by Parliament. If he could have seen any grounds for resisting the strong public principle in question, he would not support the exclusion of Sir Thomas Wilson from the operation of the Bill. The principle of the Bill had been misrepresented. Unless the clause was allowed to stand it would lay the House open to the imputation that legislation for a particular case was intended under cover of a general law. The Bill, as it stood, left Sir Thomas Wilson exactly where he was before.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, if that had been the ground of the refusal it would have been quite right; but that was not the ground. The real ground was the preservation of Hampstead Heath for the benefit of the public.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he objected to the clause. He was satisfied that no judicial member of the other House had seen and scrutinised the clause in question, which, it could not be disguised, referred specially to the case of Sir Thomas Wilson, who was the proprietor of Hampstead Heath, and who, it was stated, intended to enclose that heath. Now he (Mr. Whiteside) had a map of Sir Thomas Wilson's estate at Hampstead, and the farm, marked A and B on the map, was the site on which he proposed to build, but which farm was one mile and a-half from Hampstead Heath. Sir Thomas Wilson had previously granted to the parish of Hampstead a right to make a public road through his farm on one side, and a railway passed through it on the other side. All, therefore, that Sir Thomas wished to do was to build on the remaining portion of the farm. The opposition
 2053
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, the agent of Sir Thomas Wilson had distinctly alleged that Sir Thomas Wilson was bound by the statements in the letter, and the accident of its concerning those noble Lords he (Mr. Whiteside) could not avoid.
 MR. J. FORSTER  said, he had lived at Hampstead for several years, and he believed the hon. and learned Gentleman knew pretty well that Hampstead was chiefly inhabited by merchants connected with the City of London, and who were persons not to be influenced by any grand clique. That, however, was the first time he had heard that Lord Mansfield had any other objection to Sir Thomas Wilson's building on the property than that which any other persons entertained. It was well known that Sir Thomas Wilson several years ago commenced building operations, although in a small way, and that in the course of those operations he made some encroachments on the Heath itself, his chief building, however, being in a field adjoining the Heath. He had built a large bridge over a ravine, and had made a large brickfield for no other object, as it would appear, than to annoy the inhabitants; and there could be no doubt that his intention was to build on the Heath as soon as he should get the power to do so. Parliament was perfectly entitled to say that it would not delegate to the Court of Chancery, or any other Court, power to
 2054
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he objected to the Bill, as giving too extensive powers to alter wills to the Court of Chancery. He was of opinion that the Houses of Parliament were safer in regard of wills than any Judges. To pass the Bill with the clause in question would be a violation of the general principle which was laid down as the basis of the measure. He thought the Bill ought not to pass at all; but if it did pass, the 20th clause ought to be expunged from it, as preposterous and unjustifiable.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the clause placed the Committee in great difficulty. He was not enamoured of the Bill, still leas of the clause. The former Bill had been rejected on the ground that it was opposed to the will of the testator; but the statement which had been made by the hon. Member for Berwick (Mr. J. Forster) had put that matter in a new point of view, and showed what injustice the House had been led to commit, with regard to Sir Thomas Wilson. It also appeared that the land in question was situate one mile and a quarter from Hampstead, and it was said that there would be no objection to allow that being built upon, provided that Sir Thomas Wilson would come to some stipulation with regard to his land which abutted on the Heath. If the Committee was to come to a decision in the present case and prevent Sir Thomas Wilson from building on his land situate one mile and a quarter from the Heath, there would be nothing to prevent him going to the Court of Chancery with reference to his land abutting upon the Heath, so that the present clause, if agreed to, would not effect the object which hon. Members had in view. If the Court of Chancery was the best tribunal to decide those cases, then no exception ought to be made of a matter because Parliament had before dealt with it. They would, by the present clause, under the pretence of its involving a general principle, inflict an injury on a particular individual, and, under those circumstances, he felt bound to vote against it.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought the importance of the Bill required more time than was before the Committee; and he considered, therefore, that it would be a very great advantage if it stood over until the following Session.
 MR. WIGRAM  said, if the case of Sir Thomas Wilson had not been suggested, the clause would not have been objected to. He would suggest, however, whether it would not be as well to let the House take a ride to Hampstead Heath and enjoy themselves as to compel it to discuss a Bill which no one could hope would pass in the present Session. He thought the Bill a useful piece of legislation; but he did no think it of that urgency to require passing until next Session.
 MR. MALINS  said, the country should feel indebted to the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Graham) for the attention he had given to that most important subject. He (Mr. Malins) could corroborate the right hon. Gentleman's view that it would be difficult to imagine greater improvements in the practice of the Court of Chancery than had been effected by the alterations of 1852. The former practice of the Court was to defer decision; the practice since 1852 was to accelerate decision. Formerly cases were referred to the Master for decision; now they were decided on affidavit, under the immediate supervision of the Judge in Chambers. With regard to the statement of the right hon. Baronet as to the mode of transacting business in Chambers, there was a great deal in his suggestion. Every Judge was occupied on an average six hours each day in open Court, during which some sixty to eighty matters were often disposed of. That a Judge should have, after that, to go to Chambers was undoubtedly an evil, which, however, the appointment of an additional Judge, to enable the Judges to sit a day each week in Chambers, would not remedy. One of the advantages of the alteration of 1852 was that of getting rid of the arrears in the Court of Chancery. Vice Chancellor Stuart had risen on the 27th of July, having disposed of every cause and every petition in his Court, except one, which stood over on agreement. The other Chancery Judges had also disposed of every cause set down for hearing, so that there were only six weeks' arrears at the utmost. As regarded the delay in appointments at Chambers, he was very much surprised to hear the statement of the right hon. Baronet. He was assured, on the contrary, that the present staff, of two chief clerks for each Judge, was amply sufficient if the Bill passed giving additional junior clerks.
 2066
 MR. MALINS  said, the object of the Bill was to rectify the powers in wills which were effected by an unskilful construction of those instruments. He was no party to any understanding that the case of Sir Thomas Wilson should be excepted on the second reading of the Bill. Sir Thomas Wilson had no intention to enclose Hampstead Heath, nor could he do so without the consent of every commoner having rights of commonage on that Heath. Sir Thomas Wilson wanted to build only on the fields beyond the turnpike in the Finchley road, which could not in the slightest degree interfere with Hampstead Heath. To refuse him the power of building on that property was to do Sir Thomas Wilson the greatest injustice. The Court of Chancery, and not the House of Commons, was the proper tribunal for judicial decisions on the rights of property. There was no more reason why Sir Thomas Wilson should not build upon his land beyond the "Spaniards" on Hampstead Heath, as far as a view of that Heath was concerned, than on his land at Woolwich. There were plenty of houses already overlooking Hampstead Heath; why should Sir Thomas Wilson alone be prevented from building houses overlooking the Heath, when he did not interfere with the rights of commonage? Why should Sir Thomas Wilson alone be selected to encounter all the expense of coming over and over again to Parliament for powers to lease when it was proposed by the Bill to give jurisdiction to the Court of Chancery to confer those powers upon any other tenant for life in the same predicament? The Bill purporting to be a general Bill, he would rather stop it altogether than be a party to such erroneous legislation as went to exclude one individual from its operation. He therefore gave his most strenuous opposition to the clause.
 MR. BARROW  said, he felt bound to vote for the continuance of the clause, because he disapproved of the Bill altogether.
 2055
 MR. TITE  said, he should second the Motion. He hoped that the House would assent to the proposition of his hon. and gallant colleague, for it was of the greatest importance to the country that the navy should be upon a satisfactory footing. Upon a subject of such a technical nature it was hardly possible that he should go into any detail; that, however, was not a matter of importance after the statement which his hon. and gallant Colleague had made. An opinion was growing up in the country that the Minister in whom the superintendence of the navy was vested ought to be chosen independently of political exigencies; to discuss that, however, would raise a great constitutional question into which that was not the time to enter. He trusted that the Government
 2075
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that it would be very convenient if they could disconnect the name of Sir Thomas Wilson from the Bill, but that, apparently, was impossible, as it had been sent down from the Lords—he would not say with the intention of its meeting that gentleman's case, yet such would be its effect. He had been informed that it was Sir Thomas Wilson's intention to have introduced, during the Session, another Bill for the purpose of directly attaining his object, but as the Judges to whom that Bill was referred were hostile to it, it was not proceeded with, and now the present Bill, which met his case, had been brought in. That was hardly a fair proceeding, and
 2058
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, the decision of Parliament had been given less against Sir Thomas Wilson in the former Bill than in favour of the public. He (Sir D. Norreys) could not conceive how a greater injustice could be done than had been done to Sir Thomas Wilson; and he believed that if the testator could have foreseen the extension of the metropolis in that direction he would not have omitted leasing powers from his will in respect to his Hampstead property. Sir Thomas
 2057
 SIR GEORGE GREY  also disapproved of the Amendment, which he thought would tend to diminish the responsibility of the
 2067
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, an Address was transmitted to me not long ago from the Upper House of Convocation, praying that Her Majesty would be pleased to grant Her licence to Convocation to consider and agree on a canon or constitution to be submitted for Her approval for the purpose of modifying the representation of the clergy in the Lower House of Convocation. That Address had been laid before Her Majesty, and an answer had been returned to the Archbishop of Canterbury. There would be no objection to produce the Address of the Upper House of Convocation and the reply thereto. But he might state that Her Majesty had not been advised to comply with the prayer of the Address.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, as the general opinion was that the Bill should be withdrawn, he would move that the Chairman report progress, and sit again that lay three months.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he was glad that his hon. and gallant Friend (Captain Scobell) had brought forward the subject now under discussion, inasmuch as it had afforded the First Lord of the Admiralty an opportunity of defending his conduct in connection with the department over which he presided. Sir George Cockburn had complained that he was overruled during his services at the Board, and that his recommendations had not been attended to; but the fact was that that gallant officer had never submitted any project to the House, and had opposed the Motions of Sir Charles Napier and other gallant officers when they were submitted to the House. He could not imagine who had overruled Sir George Cockburn at the Board, and the only hon. Member now present who could enlighten the House on that subject, was the hon. Member for Lewes (Mr. FitzRoy). The present Board of Admiralty was a vast improvement over former Boards, when the majority were of the lay and civil class, and when naval officers were almost excluded. There was nothing to complain of now with respect to the Board, except the system. With respect to patronage he believed that political influence was too powerful, and that some change ought to take place. He could recommend that the sum paid for the conveyance of treasure should be brought to the public account, and applied under the direction of the Admiralty. In regard to the employment of Admirals on the retired list, when he applied for a ship he was informed that the timber was not cut to build the ship, nor was the sheep killed whose skin was to supply the parchment on which to write his commission. Many officers were unable to obtain ships, and thus to comply with the regulations required to be fulfilled before they became admirals, because they had no influence to enforce attention to their wishes. With regard to the coast-guard service, he must complain that, while the officers employed on that service were certain of promotion if they were so fortunate as to come in contact with smugglers and kill half a dozen of them, they received no promotion at all if they had saved lives and property from
 2082
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to know what would be the position of the public in case Sir Thomas Wilson died in the interval? His successor would lave the power which he did not possess. The present, therefore, was the time for a compromise. He deprecated the imputations cast upon two noble Friends, the late and present Lord Mansfield, for it was his confident belief that neither was capable of the conduct imputed to them.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Sir, I am almost afraid the Committee will consider any interference in this matter, on my part, to be, if not impertinent, at all events intrusive, as this Bill deals with professional matters, of which I may be supposed not to be cognizant. My excuse for troubling the Committee must be that I, together with my right hon. friend the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley), have taken a deep interest in law reform as connected with the Court of Chancery, and I am bound to say I regard the present measure with considerable anxiety. I have some offences, as a member of the Commission, to answer for with respect to the Court of
 2061 2062 2063 "The judicial business which has hitherto occupied the attention of the Masters would thus, in effect, be transferred to the Court, and the duties not discharged by the Judges themselves would be transferred to officers immediately attached to the several branches of the Court, which officers should possess similar qualifications and perform similar duties to those of the present Masters in Chancery." "If experience should prove that the business of the Court cannot be sufficiently transacted without an addition to the number of Judges, we trust this necessity will be promptly met by the Legislature." 2064 2065
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, the principle of the Bill was the enlargement of the powers of tenants for life with regard to leasing and selling their property. That principle had been sanctioned by the House of Lords and affirmed by the House of Commons. Sir Thomas Wilson, being a tenant for life, would necessarily be entitled to the advantage of that principle; and the question before the Committee was narrowed to that point, whether there were any peculiar grounds why his case should be an exceptional case, and one which should be taken out of the purview of the Bill. He was a great admirer of Hampstead Heath, and should be exceedingly sorry to see it enclosed. It would, he believed, be greatly injurious to the public health. He entirely subscribed to the doctrine of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General, that instead of Hampstead Heath being enclosed, the full value of Sir Thomas Wilson's rights ought to be paid for, and the whole of the land purchased by the public in order to prevent its enclosure. But then the question arose, if it was thought fit to empower a Court of Equity to decide whether a tenant for life should have the benefit of the provisions of the Bill, whether the case of Sir Thomas Wilson in respect to Hampstead
 2056
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, his objection to the clause being expunged was, that if it were it would enable a gentleman to do, by a side wind, what Parliament had prevented his doing on preceding occasions. If Sir Thomas Wilson chose to come before the House of Commons, no doubt the House would do him justice. He (Sir J. Shelley) did not consider that the refusal to Sir Thomas Wilson inflicted any hardship on him; and he was satisfied the testator knew what he was about in limiting the leasing powers under his will. The House of Commons had refused, on more than one occasion, to reverse the will; and he (Sir J. Shelley), therefore, objected to the powers being obtained through the Court of Chancery.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he approved highly of the Lords' Amendments, almost all the material ones among which were in accordance with views he had himself pressed upon the House. As some of these Amendments, however, related to pipe drainage, he would take the opportunity of calling the attention of the House to the remarkable report of the surveyors of the Metropolitan Commission of Sewers with regard to the working of the pipe drainage in the metropolis, which had just been distributed to Members. And he did so, on account of its being not only upon the much-controverted question of pipe drainage, but also upon the personal conduct and character of the chief engineer of the Commission. The term, "pipe drainage," had been identified with the principle of using for the conveyance of sewage drains of dimensions calculated with reference to the quantity they had to convey, instead of with reference to the stature of man; because, for the drainage of all houses, without exception, of ordinary streets, and in some cases, of the whole of a small town, this principle had led to the laying down of pipes of from four inches to rather more than a foot in diameter, instead of constructing, as formerly, all house-drains and sewers of a minimum size of something like a yard in diameter, to allow of the passage of a man for the purpose of cleansing or repairs when required. He used the word therefore in this sense, though the strongest advocates of pipe drainage quite recognised the necessity of having recourse to brick sewers, whenever the quantity of sewage to be conveyed was too large for pipes to carry it off. Pipe drainage, taken in this sense, had been pronounced by the noble Lord at the head of the Government to combine the greatest degree of efficiency with the greatest degree of economy, as indeed it had been proved to do by the experience of many places for several years. Unhappily, however, several engineers, most eminent in other branches of the profession, had pronounced against it; and following in their wake, Mr. Bazalgette, the engineer to the Commission of Sewers, had latterly made himself conspicuous by his hostility to it. It appeared from the Return on the table of the House, that some time last year a number of pipe drains were opened and examined secretly
 2068 2069
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he must request the indulgence of the Committee for a short time. He wished to allude to the reforms which had recently been effected in the Court of Chancery, and to the benefit which had resulted from
 2119 2120 2121
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he wished to take the liberty of saying that, during a tolerably long experience of that House, he had never witnessed so great an abuse of the privileges enjoyed by private Members as that of which the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite had been guilty. The hon. and learned Gentleman had said that that was the only opportunity he had of making a speech on the subject, but, surely an opportunity had been afforded him when the noble Lord the Member for London brought forward the subject of Italy a few days ago. He thought some measures should be taken to prevent such abuses as those of the power of individual Members, by which the House was prevented from taking up the real business before it.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he should move an Amendment to the effect that the increased number of clerks should be that of chief clerks, instead of junior clerks. It had been his wish that the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee. He had reason to believe that the chief clerks had discharged their duties in a perfectly satisfactory manner; but if high salaries were paid to those clerks, and very inadequate salaries were paid to the junior clerks, it was not to be wondered at that the junior clerks should seek to evade their work. His opinion was, that it would be better to increase the number of senior clerks, and also to increase their salaries, than add to the number of junior clerks. He would take that opportunity of stating that the solicitors, as a body, were strongly opposed to the Bill. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Carlisle (Sir J. Graham) that as the Bill stood it began at the wrong end, and he would recommend that, instead of increasing the number of junior clerks, they should add to the position and emoluments of the chief clerks. He thought that the whole subject was one which it might be very proper to refer to a Select Committee.
 MR. WIGRAM  said, that the object of the Bill was to afford the chief clerks the assistance of an additional number of junior clerks, and it proposed that each chief clerk, who had now one junior clerk, should have an additional junior clerk. He considered it most important that the chief clerks should, as far as possible, discharge their duties in person, and he hoped some explanation would be given of the grounds on which the appointment of the additional junior clerks was recommended. He found it was proposed that the additional clerks should receive salaries of 250 1. 2118
 MR. MALINS  said, he did not blame the hon. and learned Solicitor General for bringing on a Bill of such importance at so late a period of the Session; but it was obvious that the Committee could not give the subject all the consideration it deserved. He had shown that the hon. and learned Gentleman was in error in supposing another Judge necessary, because there was no delay in cases at the Chambers of the Judge. The present system of Chancery administration worked very satisfactorily, and he did not think, from the opinion expressed by the Judges themselves, that there was any necessity for the appointment of additional chief clerks. He did not mean to say that, when the system which had been recently introduced was more fully developed, it might not be necessary to appoint additional chief clerks, or even additional Judges, but at present he believed that any inconvenience might be obviated by the appointment of junior clerks, and he therefore approved generally the objects of the Bill, As the right hon. Member for Carlisle (Sir J. Graham) had the other night referred to the question of Chancery Reform, he (Mr. Malins) might say that he thought some alteration was most urgently required with regard to the system of appellate jurisdiction. All appeals from the Master of the Rolls and Vice Chancellors went to the Lord Chancellor alone. It was felt that that proceeding was a hardship and an evil; and the Act of 1851 was passed to remedy it, creating, as it did, a Court of Appeal with two Judges. Now the system of one Judge reversing the decision of another could never be satisfactory. But the Act of 1851 had not caused that system to cease, for the Lords Justices and the Lord Chancellor, both sitting in Lincoln's Inn Hall in two Courts, still continued to decide appeals separately. He did not see why the Lord Chancellor should be called upon to decide appeals when there was a Court for the purpose, presided over by the Lords Justices. He had known the Lord Chancellor call for the appeal paper, and fix what appeals should be put into the paper, of his own Court. It was an extraordinary anomaly that neither of the two Lords Justices could decide an appeal
 2117
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that the
 2105
 MR. G. BOWYER :  * 2106 2107 2108 2109 2110 2111
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he did not consider that the Amendment of the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Hadfield) would further the object in view of expediting the business of the Court of Chancery. It appeared to him that the increase of business in Chancery should be provided for by an addition to the number of Courts. He had, however, no objection to give aid to the chief clerks in the way proposed by the Bill, if there were an undue pressure upon them, provided the effect were not to constitute them Judges and relieve the Judges from that responsibility which ought to rest upon them.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he had felt, when he addressed the Committee the day before, that the subject of the Bill was of the utmost gravity, and that opinion was very much confirmed by the observations to which the Committee had just listened. He had long felt that neither the appellate jurisdiction as it existed in Chancery, nor the appellate jurisdiction, in the last resort, were at the present moment satisfactory. He entertained great doubts as to the advantage of a double Court of appeal, believing that one appeal was for the benefit of the suitors, but that that appeal ought to be an unexceptionable Court. It was not, however, expedient to pursue the subject further on the present occasion. Enough had been said in presence of the noble Lord (Lord Palmerston) to show the opinion of one of the law advisers of the Crown, a man at the head of his profession, as to the necessity of some alteration, and he trusted that that most important matter would receive the careful consideration of the Government. Any change in regard to the appellate jurisdiction of the House of Lords was one of the gravest questions which could be brought before Parliament, because that was one of the most ancient powers possessed by the other branch of the Legislature. Whether they would surrender that power was a matter open to question, but he would remind the noble Lord that it was the duty of the Government, when once they had made up their minds as to the course to be pursued, to bring all their influence to bear in endeavouring to reconcile Parliament to any change which might be thought necessary. He thought that the debate altogether would not be thrown away, and he was quite sure that the zeal of his noble Friend to promote the public interest would lead him during the recess to give the utmost attention to that important subject. With regard to the second clause, there was no reason whatever why it should be retained. Instead of modifying it, it would be much better if his hon. and learned Friend would consent to withdraw it altogether.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : With regard, Sir to the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman, I presume that it is not his intention to press it, because our future proceedings most be regulated by what takes place this evening in another place. As I apprehend the statement of the hon. and learned Gentleman, he wishes to be informed what arrangements have been or are about to be made to prevent the Italian Legion from being dangerous to order and tranquility in Italy at the close of the war, when their services will no longer be required. The Italian Legion, the enrolment of which the hon. and learned Gentleman has applauded, will consist of some 4,000 or 5,000 men, who will, no doubt be capable of rendering good service in the contest in which we are engaged, and who will distinguish themselves on the scene of operations to which they may be dispatched. The hon. and learned Gentleman appears to apprehend
 2112 2113 2114 2115
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the Amendment, he considered, was fatal to one of the chief objects of the Bill, and hoped the House would not adopt it.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he concurred in objecting to the Amendment as injuring the value of the measure, but thought it would be better to take the Bill n its present shape than run the risk of losing it by dissenting from the changes made in it.
 MR. MALINS  said, he regretted the insertion of the Amendment, the only effect of which would be  pro tanto
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he thought at one time that the effect of passing the Bill would have been to have called forth a large amount of dormant capital; but he feared that, if passed in its present shape, its effect would be decidedly the reverse of that which he had anticipated.
 MR. WILKINSON  said, he thought that there would be a great deal of difficulty connected with the issue of such certificates, as it would be impossible for the Board of Trade to appoint efficient auditors for examining the affairs of every Company.
 MR. BRAMLEY-MOORE  said, he considered that it would be perfectly impracticable to carry out the proposed plan. If the shareholders of a Company were disposed to be dishonest, they could be so in spite of all the diligence exercised by the auditor to prevent it. He, therefore, hoped the House would not assent to the Amendment.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, it was his opinion that many of the Amendments introduced by the other House were very objectionable, and regretted that they had been inserted in the Bill. At the same time it was necessary to make some allowances for them. It had been found impossible
 2129
 Mr. MALINS  said, he thought that if the Members of the Government in the other House had been more firm, those Amendments, which would greatly impede the operations of the Bill, need not have been inserted.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he must again express his confident opinion that it would be much better to give up the Bill altogether than to agree to it in its present shape; for, if passed, it would produce nothing but the greatest disappointment throughout the country.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he thought that it would be far better for the House to agree to the Bill in its present shape, than endanger it by refusing to agree to the Amendments. By passing the Bill they would have obtained the sanction of the Legislature to the great principle of limited liability in matters of partnership. He fully concurred in the opinions expressed with respect to the mischievous tendency of the Amendments introduced by the other House; but they had, however, obtained the great advantage of having the principle of limited liability in commercial transactions fully admitted. It was absolutely impossible, if the Bill were passed, that a long time should elapse, without reconsidering the whole subject.
 SIR WILLIAM J0LLIFFE  said, he thought that there was no necessity for passing the Bill for the purpose of obtaining the sanction of Parliament to its principle, inasmuch as the principle had been fully admitted by both Houses in the discussions which had taken place. It was far better that the Bill should be thrown out altogether than that the Legislature should pass a Bill which could not possibly work.
 MR. BRAMLEY-MOORE  said, that if any person was foolish enough to become a Director of a Company with limited liability, subject to such a condition, he would well deserve all that might befall him in the loss of his money. In fact, be did not believe that any person would be found sufficiently foolish to become a Director of such a Company.
 MR. WILKINSON  said, he did not consider that the Amendment would really do any harm; it merely declared in effect that the Directors should not declare a dividend when they knew the Company to be insolvent.
 MR. MALINS  said, he would admit that the words "knowing" the company to be insolvent removed much of the harm which would otherwise attend the Amendment; but even as it stood its effect would be to prevent many timid men from becoming connected with Companies of that nature, their proceedings would be hampered, and no possible good could result from the clause.
 MR. BRAMLEY-MOORE  said, he thought, that as they advanced in the Bill the Amendments introduced became worse. Nothing could be more absurd than such an Amendment, and he would suggest that the House ought not to agree to it.
 MR. MALINS  said, he deprecated the exceedingly narrow spirit upon Which the Bill appeared to have been discussed in the other House. Their Lordships appeared to have thought that all persons engaged in commercial transactions were either knaves or idiots—knaves who were
 2131
 MR. J. FORSTER  said, that every one of those clauses which had met with so many objections from both sides of the House, were precisely those to which he and several other hon. Members who had been charged with a desire to obstruct the Bill, had so strongly objected when it was first brought forward in that House.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that if the Bill were not passed during the present Session, they would have next year to go over the whole ground again, whereas, by passing the measure now, its principle would be definitively adopted; and all that would have to be done hereafter would be merely to pass such Amendments as were found to be necessary to give effect to the proper working out of the principles which had been adopted, if such should be required.
 THE LORD CHANCELLOR  said—
 SIR DE LACY EVANS : Sir, I wish to avail myself of this opportunity to offer a few observations upon a subject which I feel assured must be deeply interesting both to the House and to the country. My object is to elicit from the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown a declaration, which I am convinced he will be most desirous of making, and which will, I think, prove satisfactory to the nation, of the determination of the Government to prosecute the war with vigour during the lengthened Parliamentary recess which is likely to ensue. No
 2147 2148 2149 2150 l l l 2151 morale 2152 l l
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, nobody is more entitled than my hon. and gallant Friend to express his opinions on the conduct of the war, and on the manner in which it can be successfully carried on. His high military reputation, his distinguished services, and the wide scope to which his thoughts on such matters extend, all lend the greatest weight to anything that falls from him, and render the suggestions he has just made deserving of the deepest consideration. Some of those suggestions, however, have already been the subject of investigation by Her Majesty's Government. My hon. and gallant Friend began by expressing his hope that a declaration of their determination to prosecute the war with vigour will come from Her Majesty's Government, Sir, I and my colleagues have already stated our intentions upon that point; and I think when my hon. and gallant Friend shall have heard the words that will soon proceed from the Commissioners appointed to convey Her Majesty's sentiments to her Parliament at the close of this Session, he will find that the views entertained in that high quarter are entirely in accordance with those which we have expressed. It is quite true, as he says, that if you compare the amount of our army now in the field with the British army in the field at the latter period of the Peninsular war, you will discover the balance to be greatly against the present extent of our force. But, if hon. Members will go higher, and turn to the first year of the Peninsular war, they will find that the efforts which we are now making are greater than those that the British Government were able to make at the commencement of that war. It must always be a task of great difficulty, starting from peace establishments, to raise suddenly and in a short time that augmentation of our force which the exigencies of actual hostilities may demand; but I believe there is no period in the history of this country in which, within the same space of time, so large an increase in our military force has taken place as is the case at present, or in which an army so efficient has been sent to so distant a quarter, to carry out a difficult and dangerous undertaking. The number of men enlisted is more than double the amount ever be-
 2153 2154
