 GENERAL PEEL  said, that the only alteration which he proposed to make in the Mutiny Bill with regard to billeting in Scotland was to raise the allowance to innkeepers from l½ d d
 MR. WHITE  said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer informed the House on the previous day that by his Bill no disfranchisement would take place. But there
 11
 SIR EDWARD BULWER LYTTON  said, that the question of separation was under the consideration of the law officers of the Crown, and that if any delay had taken place on the subject, it was not the fault of the present Government.
 MR. RIDLEY  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies whether Her Majesty's Government have received the Report of a Commission appointed to inquire into a charge brought against Mr. Daniel Richard Caldwell, for participating in the profits of piracy during the time he was holding an office under the Government of Hong Kong; also a Report of the Trial of the Queen against William Tarrant, which took place in the month of November last in the Supreme Court of Victoria, in Hong Kong, and in which trial it was sworn that certain papers implicating Mr. Caldwell in the above charge were destroyed by order of Dr. Bridges, Acting Colonial Secretary, at that time exercising, as is alleged, an unlawful authority conferred by the Governor of the Colony. If these Reports have been received what course Her Majesty's Government have taken with reference to the transactions to which they relate; and whether they will lay upon the Table any papers which may contain information on the subject?
 SIR EDWARD BULWER LYTTON  was understood to say that the Government had received a Report from the Commission appointed to inquire into the charge brought against Mr. Caldwell of participating in the profits of piracy, during the time he held office under the Government of Hong Kong, and in order that the House might form some notion of the light reading which the hon. Gentleman proposed to add to the literature of the House of Commons, he had brought a small portion of the papers of which the cost of publication was suggested. [The right hon. Baronet here pulled out of his official box two bulky bundles of papers, which he laid upon the Table.] When those documents reached the Colonial Office he saw at once that they contained many points involving questions of legal evidence which it was necessary to submit to the indefatigable and zealous law adviser of the Colonial Department. Her Majesty's Government had not received a report of the trial of Mr. Tarrant
 13 14
 MR. T. BUNCOMBE  was not aware that he had said anything that could be construed into an attack upon private character. In using the words "common brewer" to designate one of these gentlemen, he meant nothing offensive, for these were words which were posted over all their doors. With regard to Dr. Ward, he had made no attack upon his private character. He had merely said that he was a gentleman eminent in his profession, and that having a great practice he could not attend to his business.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he had not even heard of this addition to the magistracy of Huntingdonshire until he saw the Question of the hon. Gentleman on the paper. Why the hon. Gentleman should have thought it necessary, therefore, to introduce his name into the present discussion, he was altogether at a loss to imagine. He was extremely happy, however, that the hon. Gentleman had done so, for it gave him an opportunity of bearing testimony to the character of two of the gentlemen who had been mentioned, and who were connected with the town of Huntingdon. He (General Peel) had had the honour of their acquaintance for twenty-eight years, and he ventured to say that there were no two men in any part of England who were more fitted to be placed in the commission of the peace than they were. One of them had been mayor of the borough on four different occasions, and the other on three different occasions; and he could safely take upon himself to declare that they both possessed the esteem and regard of all their fellow-townsmen, and that he did not think it possible to have selected any two persons in the county more capable of discharging the duties of a magistrate. The hon. Member was wrong in his facts from beginning to end. He was wrong in saying that there had been no contest in
 20
 LORD STANLEY  stated that no official information had yet been received upon the subject to which the hon. Baronet had directed his attention, and he did not think it would be proper or convenient that he should enter into a discussion upon it in the absence of such information. He did not mean to cast any discredit upon the statements which the hon. Baronet had read to the House, but it must be recollected that they were made on the authority of private individuals; and he thought it would only be dealing fairly with the officers of the Government if he asked the House to suspend its judgment till the official statements and the opinions of the local authorities at Madras should have been received. As to that general pledge which the hon. Baronet asked him to give, he thought the best and most fitting pledge he could give
 24
 MR. SERJEANT DEASY  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland,
 26 The Times,
 LORD NAAS  said, he would answer the second question first. It was one of great importance, for nothing could be more improper or unfortunate than that any impediment should be thrown by prison authorities in the way of persons who were awaiting their trial, communicating in the most free, unrestricted, and confidential manner, with their legal advisers. He could assure the hon. and learned Gentleman that in this case nothing of the kind had taken place; and, if the House would permit him, he would read one or two documents, which would show exactly what had happened. The by-law in force in Cork gaol, relating to the inspection of prisoners' letters, was couched in the following terms:—
 "All letters or parcels to or from a prisoner must be inspected by the Governor, who shall forward or keep the same according to the nature of their contents." "Prisoners under examination, or committed for trial, are to be allowed to deliver personally to their legal advisers (such being certified attorneys), or their authorized clerks, any confidential written communications prepared as instructions for their defence, without being previously examined by any officer of the prison; but all such written communications, not personally delivered to the legal adviser or his clerk, are to be considered as letters, and are not be sent out of the prison without being previously inspected by the Governor." "I have the honour of enclosing, for your Lordship's perusal, a copy of a letter which I this day addressed to the Governor of the gaol of the county of Cork, and as the agent of those young men, I respectfully ask your Lordship to communicate
 27 "Mr. Downing's request should be complied with. Telegraph to Governor of Cork Gaol, and write to Downing by to-night's post, stating that you had telegraphed to me, and that I had at once answered in the affirmative." "I am directed by the Lord Lieutenant to inform you that your letter of the 5th instant to Lord Naas was forwarded yesterday to London, and a telegram has been this day received from his Lordship, desiring that directions should be given to the Governor of Cork County Gaol to forward, unopened, all letters on legal business to and from the prisoners charged with being members of an illegal society. A letter has this day been received from the Governor of the gaol, enclosing a copy of his correspondence with you, from which his Excellency learns with satisfaction that the course indicated above has already been adopted. And his Excellency's approval of that course has been communicated by this day's post to the Governor." 28 "If this Commissioner was to be superseded, he ought to retire upon his full salary; but he must be permitted to add that it appeared to him most unwise to reduce the number of Judges at the very time when the proposed alterations would obviously have the effect of materially adding to the business of the Court. 29
 SIR RICHARD BETH ELL  said, that in the Bill originally introduced by him, when the scheme for testamentary jurisdiction was of a much larger character than at present, he proposed compensation for the proctors. The last Bill, which was introduced by the Government, made no such provision. But the proctors had many influential friends in the House, and they compelled the Government to give them compensation as the price of the passing of the Bill. He at that time calculated the compensation to the proctors at about £60,000 a year, but that was only estimating their profits in causes relating to the administration of estates and to the probate of wills. The compensation which was ultimately given to them extended not only to that department but to the profits derived from marriage and divorce causes, which were the subject of another Bill; and he understood from the Chancellor of the Exchequer that the aggregate amount of compensation to the proctors in both departments and to all the officers of the court amounted to £130,000 a year. In that was included, he believed, no less than £8,000 a year to the late registrar, a very considerable sum to his successor, Lord Canterbury, and large sums to the registrar, Judges, and officers of the abolished Court. Deducting these amounts, and the amount upon the marriage and divorce practice, he believed that there would not be much difference between his original Estimate and the sum which had been just named by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. It might, therefore, be perfectly true, as the right hon. Gentleman said, that this measure, in consequence of the kind and charitable interposition of Gentlemen opposite, would cost the country £130,000 a year
 32
 GENERAL PEEL  rose to reply, but—
 SIR EDWARD BULWER LYTTON  believed that the subject had excited a good deal of interest, and he was very thankful to the hon. Member for calling attention to this or any other matter con-
 35
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he would take that opportunity of answering some Questions which had been put in the course of the preceding debate. The papers relating to Sir Charles Trevelyan's abolition of army purchase scheme, moved for on the 15th and 17th ult., would he laid on the table of the House in a few days. He had also been asked by the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster (Sir De Lacy Evans) whether it was the fact that only 250 of the approved new rifled cannon were at present ordered or expected to be constructed within the current year. He was not quite sure whether it was very prudent or politic to state the exact number of guns constructing. He had stated, on a former occasion, that the new artillery would be supplied as quickly as it could possibly be made, and also that the manufacture would be proceeded with at Woolwich, as well as at Sir William Armstrong's establishment at Newcastle. The hon. and gallant Member was mistaken in supposing that any grant had been given to Sir William Armstrong. All that had been done by the Government was this, to give a guarantee that whatever was laid out by Sir William in machinery or additional buildings fur the purpose of executing the Government order, should be refunded to him in event of the order being withdrawn, the amount to be ascertained by arbitration afterwards.
 MR. CORRY  said, he regretted to learn from the statement of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down that his right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Admiralty had been understood not to have defended Sir Baldwin Walker against the attacks of the noble Lord the Member for Sandwich in the speech with which he introduced this Motion. He (Mr. Corry), on the contrary, had understood his right hon. Friend to have made such a defence, and to have denied that any extravagance had taken place under the management of Sir Baldwin Walker. For himself, for his right hon. Friend, and for every Member of the Board of Admiralty he could say that they entertained the highest opinion of Sir Baldwin Walker who was a most able and efficient officer, and a man of the highest integrity. The right hon. Member for Ashton (Mr. M. Gibson) had stated that his right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Admiralty had under-estimated the English steam navy, and had over-estimated the steam navy of France; but he (Mr. Corry) could undertake to state from authentic documents, to which the First Lord of the Admiralty had adverted, and which had been produced before the Committee which had inquired into that subject, that the statement of his right hon. Friend was completely and literally correct. An hon. Member had asked what was the use of our old sailing ships, and he had to observe in reply that many of those ships could be converted into efficient steam vessels, and those which could not be so converted would be wanted to serve for training ships, hulks, harbour ships, and for a variety of other purposes. With reference to the statement that no less a sum than £5,000,000 could not be accounted for, he did not hesitate to say that there was not the slightest foundation for any such a charge. If the subject was fully entered into, it would be shown to the satisfaction of every reasonable man that every farthing of the money voted for the navy could be accounted for. In proof of this he quoted a return showing the sums which had been expended during the six years from 1852 to 1857, both inclusive. The return did not go far enough back to include the whole of the eleven years referred by the noble Lord the Member for Sandwich; but an account could easily be
 77 s., s., 78 "From the above estimate, it appears that the displacement is too small by 615 tons. Hence the ship would be immersed two feet beyond the draught of water given, and the greatest transverse section would be increased from 645 square feet to 720; and that when all the guns, as was intended, were fought on one side, the inclination of the ship would leave only seven feet three inches for the height of the mid-ship port in smooth water, and that to carry, as proposed, 1,000 tons of coals, it would be necessary to stow COO tons on the lower deck."
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, he would not venture to enter upon the general question, raised by the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) but would merely make a few observations on the remarks which had fallen from the noble Lord the Member for Sandwich. The House would recollect that the noble Lord had said that, after close inquiry, he could not account for the sum of £5,000,000 sterling in the accounts of our expenditure upon shipbuilding. He thought he (Mr. Baring) could satisfactorily account for at least a part of that sum amounting to £2,000,000. The noble Lord compared the expenditure upon shipbuilding, repairing and converting, with the receipts in Votes, numbers 8, 9, and 10. That comparison gave £14,000,000 for expenditure, and £17,000,000 for receipts. That made a difference of £3,000,000. Then the noble Lord added £2,000,000 for excesses under those Votes during the last eleven years. He (Mr. Baring) had taken the pains to examine the accounts, in order to investigate how far the noble Lord was justified in taking that excess into account. That excess did amount to £2,000,000, but when he turned to the expenditure of this excess, he found that it consisted, for the most part, of outlays for steam machinery, which, the House would recollect, had been expressly excluded by the noble Lord from his calculations; and of this £2,000,000, therefore, as far as he (Mr.
 82
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  consented to withdraw his Motion.
 MR. GILPIN  also consented to postpone
 84
 Mr. FITZROY in the Chair.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he trusted the right hon. First Lord of the Admiralty would not compel him to bring forward, at that late hour, the Motion of which he had given notice, that the Navy Estimates be referred to a Select Committee. He would move the adjournment of the House.
 LORD STANLEY  proposed to fill up the blank in this clause with the sum of £7,000,000.
 LORD STANLEY  thought that the matter ought to be left to the discretion of the Executive Government. All or nearly all of the sum was needed for the actual home expenses of the Indian Government. He could not be more definite on the subject.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he had taken legal opinion upon the point, and was informed that the Government of India had succeeded to all the powers, responsibilities, and liabilities of the Company. The Secretary of State might raise what money he required without the sanction of Parliament, but only by a circuitous process.
 87
 MR. WILSON  asked what were the objects of the measure?
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, his impression had been that back passages were only allowed to matrons from Sydney, and not from the other Australian colonies. Great evils had arisen in emigrant ships from the want of properly qualified matrons. Sometimes 300 or 400 single women were on board, and under proper control they might be taught needlework, and the voyage might be made very instructive. He hoped the hon. Gentleman would communicate with the Colonial Government on the subject, in order that proper salaries might be appropriated for the pay of these matrons, and that they might be provided with a passage home from all the Australian colonies.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  moved an Amendment to the Question "That Mr. Speaker do now leave the chair."
 "That, in conformity with the practice of Public Departments of laying before the House detailed Estimates for works costing above £1,000, it is desirable that a Statement in the following form, showing the proposed expenditure in the construction and conversion of Her Majesty's Ships be annually laid before this House with the Navy Estimates:—( form 40 41 Duke of Wellington, Agamemnon, Shannon 42 Mersey, Orlando, Pearl Harrier Swallow Pearl Victoria and Albert, 43 44 45 46 Howe, Immortalité 47 Orlando, Mersey, San Fiorenzo, Lyra, Racer
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  begged to explain that he had taken the mean of the two classes of line-of-battle ships as the cost of a line-of-battle ship, and that he had estimated the frigates and corvettes in the same way.
 LOUD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the estimate was drawn by a gentleman who had built a corvette for the Portuguese Government, which had beat all our ships of the same guns and with the same machinery.
 LORD JOHN HAY  said, he would not have trespassed upon the House but for the statements made by the hon. Member for Portsmouth (Sir James Elphinstone). That hon. Member had made an attack on the gun-boats; now he knew something about them, and he begged to observe that they were a class of vessels that had rendered the greatest service during the Russian war. They were not built to go long distances, and when the hon. Member talked of the time they had taken to go to China, he thought it was highly creditable to them that so many had gone to the other side of the world without an accident. If any of the crews did not cook on their voyage out, it must certainly have been from their preference for raw meat, because he could testify that the gun-boats had every facility for cooking, the same as other ships. He spoke with the more confidence because a considerable number had been placed under his direction to test their merits, and though he did not mean to say that they could contend with an enemy on the open sea, yet they would do good service in protecting our commerce and putting down piracy in various parts of the world. With regard to the Motion, before the House, he thought it would he better to have a Committee of Inquiry; but he believed that the noble Lord had greatly overstated the case. The hon. Member for Portsmouth had recommended them to adopt the system of the United States, where the plans of vessels were submitted to a Committee of Congress; but the results of that system were as bad as possible. They had no doubt heard a great deal about the magnificent American navy, and the vessels of that country went, he might say, "swaggering" over the world and creating a great deal of fuss; but a close inspection of those vessels did nut bear out what was said of them. He supposed there was not a Member in the House that had not heard of the extraordinary powers of the  Merrimac. 71 Merrimac. Wabash; Niagara, Diadem
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I cannot but think that this question is not in a satisfactory position. There are two matters before the House—the Motion made by my noble Friend, and his statement with regard to the Motion. I do not think it would be satisfactory to the House, in the imperfect state of information in which it must always be about shipbuilding, to prescribe a particular form in which ships should be built or altered. On the other band, I do not think that it can be satisfactory to the House that the whole statement of my noble Friend, which he has evidently studied with great care, and which he makes on his own responsibility, should be entirely set aside. His statement, and that of the gallant Admiral, leave an impression on my mind that there ought to be some further inquiry. In 1818, 1828, 1838, 1848, we had Committees of Inquiry on naval and military expenditure; so that the course is not unusual, and these statements do call for some answer by way of inquiry. It is not fair to say that statements and motions of this kind are attacks
 79
 MR. AYRTON  would take that opportunity of calling the attention of Government to the treatment of County Court prisoners, who were treated in the same manner as criminals.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he mentioned the other night that there were three Bills which had been prepared, and one of them referred to the subject alluded to.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The Government, as a general rule, have no objection to inquiry into any branch of public expenditure; but if a proposition of that kind is made, let it be so fairly, let it be brought forward with due notice, let us have time to consider so grave a proposal, and let us not be hurried into a Resolution to inquire into the expenditure of a great Department without being convinced that there are valid grounds for taking such a step. It is not our duty, nor would it be advantageous to the public interests, to accede to so important a proposition when made in an incidental and casual manner. But the Government have been inquiring. We have had three inquiries of a very laborious and minute character with respect to the expenditure of the navy, and my right hon. Friend the First Lord has offered to place the results of those investigations before the House. It would be better for the House to be in possession of the facts and statements which we are prepared to submit before they come to a resolution that more information is necessary. There has been an inquiry into the dockyards; there has been an inquiry into the expenditure upon steam machinery; and there has been a confidential inquiry into the general expenditure of the navy. All those inquiries have been, conducted by men of the greatest ability, whose devotion of time and intelligence has been eminently praiseworthy. The First Lord of the Admiralty has voluntarily offered to submit the results to the House; but before they have been so submitted, before the noble Lord had seen them, before he can judge whether there are any points on which additional information is desirable, before he has satisfied himself whether further investigation is necessary, he is surprised that the Government, without any notice whatever, should not at once agree to the appointment of another Committee of Inquiry into the general condition of the navy and the expenditure of that Department. I must say that the noble Lord is somewhat unreasonable. Let him avail himself, in the first place, of the offer which my right hon. Friend has made. It may be that he and the House will then find themselves in a position to form, from the most ample materials, an opinion upon the subject now under consideration. That opinion may be favourable or unfavourable, to the administration of the navy, but when there are materials in existence which the House does not possess, but which the
 81
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It is not the intention of Her Majesty's Government at present to introduce a Bill for the purpose of enabling Serjeants, barristers-at-law, and attorneys and solicitors, to practice in the High Court of Admiralty. If such a Bill should at any time be introduced I think that will be the fittest period for considering the conditions under which that admission should take place. But I may state, in passing, with regard to compensation to proctors—in case that question should have to be considered again with respect to the opening of the Court of Admiralty, that the profits of the Proctors in that Court were not taken into consideration by the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the amount of compensation which the proctors should receive. There are other inquiries of the hon. Member for Sheffield to which I will venture to give
 30 31
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. Baronet the Member for Tavistock, though obliged to deal with an acrimonions subject, had always treated the House and the Government in so kind and courteous a manner, that he thought it his duty to accede to the suggestion which had just been made. He was sure, too, it would be the general wish of the House that a morning sitting should be appointed for the discussion of the Church Rate Bill, especially as the present position of public business, and the necessity of getting on with it, would deprive him of the power of appointing an evening for the discussion of the Bill. If Tuesday morning next would meet the wish of the hon. Baronet and his Friends he would arrange accordingly.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was only acquainted with the facts of the case from the investigation of the Committee of that House; and, as far as he was informed, he saw no reason to challenge the justice of the Report of that Committee or its decision.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Gentleman had given him no notice of the question. He did not complain of the circumstance; but he thought the custom of giving notice was a convenient one. What he stated yesterday was, that in the Bill which he had the honour to introduce to the House no place and no person would be disfranchised. He was not aware that the artisans of the dockyards were disfranchised by his Bill. It was the intention of the Government, not that they should be disfranchised, but that they should be disqualified.
 MR. ADDERLEY  admitted that the epidemic to which the right hon. Gentleman had called the attention of the House prevailed to a considerable extent at the present moment; but he could at the same time assure him that the Privy Council had exercised to the utmost all the powers which had been conferred upon them under the Act of last Session. They had done everything, for instance, which that Act enabled them to do in the way of inquiry, of procuring reports and returns, of giving advice, and of setting in motion local authorities in many parts of the country. They were issuing such regulations to the boards of guardians for the purpose of raising the qualification of public vaccinators as they thought could be enforced. Some delay had been occasioned in the issue of those regulations, owing, in the first place, to the necessity of entering into a correspondence on the subject with the Poor Law Board; and, secondly, to the circumstance that a hope was entertained that security for due qualification of vaccinators could be most effectually attained through the machinery of the Medical Council, which had called into existence
 37 38
 MR. BUXTON  said, he wished to explain that having stated on Friday last that the Anti Slavery Society was opposed to all immigration, he had since been requested, on behalf of the Society, to state that its members were not opposed to a perfectly free immigration.
 MR. COWAN  said, he wished to inquire whether it was intended to make any alteration in the present mode of billeting the troops in Scotland?
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : I am as willing, as others have been, to bear testimony to the ability as well as the calm and moderate tone with which the noble Lord has brought forward his Motion. I quite acquit him and other hon. Gentlemen who have spoken of any intention of intending to make an attack on the right hon. Gentleman (Sir John Pakington) or myself, or any of the other gentlemen who were my predecessors in the office of First Lord of the Admiralty during the last eleven years. The noble Lord says, that only the system is assailed; but that does not prevent some of the statements that have been made from being a most painful attack on Sir Baldwin Walker, one of the most valuable and efficient officers ever employed by the Board of Admiralty. I am rejoiced to find that this attack has elicited such a general expression of opin-
 73 74 75 76
 MR. CARDWELL  expressed himself satisfied with the explanation given by the right hon. Baronet. The Commissioners recommended that there should be an increased allowance for provisions to the extent of £42,000, and he wished to know whether the present Vote would be increased by that amount.
 MR. CARDWELL  supposed, then, there would be a supplemental Vote.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that as this Vote was one of those referred to in the Report of the Royal Commissioners on Manning the Navy, it might be desirable if the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty would state when it would be convenient for him to state the views of the Government generally on the recommendations contained in that Report.
 MR. FELLOWES  said, he should not have thought it necessary, after what had fallen from his right hon. and gallant Friend, to address the House on this occasion, if he did not think he could put the House in possession of facts of which his right hon. Friend was of necessity altogether ignorant. He would observe, in the first instance, that the hon. Member for Finsbury had been very badly instructed, and that he had evidently received his information from some one whom he (Mr. Fellowes) would recommend him most earnestly not to trust again. With regard to the gentlemen who had been put into the commission of the peace, the hon. Member had stated that four were clergymen and two were laymen; but it appeared that in this respect the hon. Member was quite wrong, for three of them were clergymen and three were laymen. The hon. Member had also stated that the whole of these gentlemen had taken an active part in the late contest for the county of Huntingdon. He (Mr. Fellowes) begged to tell him that here again he was wrong. Two of the gentlemen, who were clergymen, resided in his (Mr. Fellowes) own neighbourhood, where for some time past a great want of magistrates had been experienced in carrying on the business of the petty sessions; and with a view to remedy this inconvenience it was suggested to the noble Earl who held the office of Lord Lieutenant of the county that it was desirable to increase the number of gentlemen in the commission of the peace in that district. In consequence he had nominated these two gentlemen, who happened to be clergymen, for the simple reason that there were no laymen who were qualified in the
 21
 MR. SALISBURY  said, that Mr. Raikes, the Registrar for the diocese of Chester, had had £3,300 awarded to him as compensation. As soon as that gentleman heard that that amount had been awarded to him he wrote a letter (which appeared in the public journals) to the Bishop of Chester, stating his great surprise that the public money should be voted in that way, and promising to devote £1,100 every year out of the £3,300 to proper and charitable purposes in the diocese of Chester. He wished to know what sum had been given as compensation to Mr. Moore?
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  replied, that there would be no preference.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, the question referred to a subject alien to the objects of the Bill, but yet one of serious importance. He had heard certain reports which bore out what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman, and had asked for returns. Should he, when he obtained them, find that what had been stated was the case, he should loss no time in applying a remedy.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he could not understand he object of his hon. and learned Friend. When the Bill was before the House last year there was a strong feeling in which his Hon, and learned Friend joined, in favour of retaining three Judges, and in deference to that feeling the Government were obliged to give way. He denied that any reason whatever had been shown for altering their opinion. It was true the business had of late somewhat diminished; but he believed much of that might be attributed to the stringent rules which the deceased Judge had laid down, and which it was to be hoped would be given up. He hoped, therefore, that the government would discharge their duty, and fill up the vacancy.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he shared in the opinion which he believed was entertained by the House, that the object of his noble and gallant Friend was anything but to make an attack on the Surveyor or upon any absent man. If he understood his noble Friend he did not mean to attack the man but the system, and in this attempt to attack a system which he (Mr. Bentinck) had always maintained was founded on a most erroneous principle, he had earned the thanks of the House. Moreover, he (Mr. Bentinck) had not heard one word from his noble Friend which was capable of being construed into an attack upon the Surveyor of the Navy in particular, nor would it have occurred to him that his noble Friend had done so if it had not been suggested by the First Lord of the Admiralty and the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House. Neither did he believe that his noble Friend meant to attack his right hon. Friend the First Lord, who, when he found himself in the position he now held, without a Channel fleet, and in the midst of circumstances of great difficulty, contrived to learn his lesson, and do his duty in a manner that reflected the greatest possible credit upon him for his ability in adapting himself to the situation, and acquiring a knowledge
 62 63 64 65
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he would bog to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether the Government intends to bring in a Bill to enable Serjeants, Barristers at Law, Attorneys, and Solicitors, to practice in the High Court of Admiralty, without compensation to Proctors; and whether the yearly compensation to Proctors and other officers of the late Ecclesiastical Courts, made and to be made under the Probate Act, has been ascertained, and, if so, the probable yearly amount thereof; and what yearly amount has been received by way of contribution, in fees or otherwise, in diminution of such compensation to Proctors and other officers, and of the new Court of Probate, from suitors and parties proving Wills and taking out Administrations; and what may be the probable yearly amount of the expenses of the said Court of Probate, and of the compensation to Proctors and other officers.
 MR. SCHNEIDER,  in the absence of his hon. Friend the Member for Tavistock, (Sir J. Trelawny), asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether the Government would consent to give his hon. Friend a morning sitting for the discussion of his Church Rates Bill, in order that Members might not have to wait night after night expecting it to come off.
 MR. SPEAKER  intimated that it was against the rules of the House that any hon. Member should speak twice upon the Question of the adjournment of the House.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland whether it is the intention of Government to recommend the appointment of a third Judge of the Landed Estates Court (Ireland), in the room of Judge Martley, lately deceased? He reminded the House that when this Bill was before the House last year it was proposed by the Government that there should be only two Judges of the Court, and that Mr. Hargreave, the English Judge, should return to this country at a full salary. But that proposition was generally opposed in the House, and at last the Government acceded to the Amendment that there should be three Judges instead of two, but upon the clear understanding that in the event of a vacancy occurring
 25
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD,  in explanation observed that what he had said in June last was that he hoped no third Judge would be again appointed unless it was found that the public service required it.
 MR. JOSEPH LOCKE  said, he believed that if the debates in the House were compared with the Notice on the Paper, there would be found to be very little connection between the two. They had heard a great deal respecting the nature and the number of their ships, but all that had nothing to do with the question. This was a Motion for an inquiry into the mode of conducting business by the Admiralty; and the discussion about Sir Baldwin Walker had for two hours been treated as a personal question, although no one had attempted to take exception to the capacity, integrity, or honour of Sir Baldwin Walker; on the contrary, every one had admitted his ability and energy. The hon. Member for Dovor (Mr. Osborne) had gallantly proposed a Committee of Inquiry, and the House was met with the statement that, as inquiries of a confidential nature were being made by the Admiralty, they ought to wait until the result of those inquiries was before them, and then the House, if they thought proper, might institute further inquiry. He did not think that was
 83
 MR. MARSH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies when the separation of Moreton Bay from New South Wales will be completed?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he felt sure the House had listened with interest to the able statement of the noble Lord; but, whatever gratitude might be due to him, he thought the House would pause before expressing that gratitude to do justice to an absent man. It was all very well for the noble Lord to say that he attacked the system and not the men; but, having taken a period of eleven years, he contended that during that time there had been what he called a deficit of £5,000,000 in the expenditure of the Admiralty. Now, it so happened that during those eleven years, the only permanent officer of the Admiralty had been the Surveyor of the Navy, Sir Baldwin Walker, who must naturally think that this was an attack upon him. Sir Baldwin Walker had been created a baronet and a K.C.B. for his eminent services, and he would, no doubt, read with considerable astonishment to-morrow morning, that he was charged with having created in that Department, over which he had presided, in his (Mr. Osborne's) opinion, with so much credit and ability to himself, a deficiency of £5,000,000. He (Mr. Osborne) thought all who had listened to the noble Lord, however they might have been gratified by the lucidity of his statement, must have been astonished at the lame and impotent conclusion of his Motion. After maintaining that the system was so bad, so profligate, so rotten, that there had been a deficit of £5,000,000, for what did he ask? for a tabular statement of the ships built every year! If the noble Lord believed in the allegations he had made, he was hound not to stop there, but to call for a Select Committee to inquire into the whole administration of the Admiralty. If the Admiralty was so corrupt, and the Surveyor of the Navy so unfit to be trusted in the discharge of his duties, he repeated that the noble Lord was bound not to stop there, but to move for a Select Committee, before
 60 Pearl; ad captandum 61
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  wished to know when the Reports of the three Committees promised by the Government would be laid upon the table?
 MR. MALINS  said, that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had estimated the compensation to the proctors and all the officers of the court at £130,000 a year. Now he should be glad to know what portion of that sum was to be paid to the proctors alone. He wished to obtain that information, because he believed it would show that the compensation of those gentlemen—a compensation of which he had been a decided advocate—was not by any means of the extravagant amount which many people at one time supposed. It should be recollected that certain fees which were paid for proctorial bills were to go to the fund for providing that compensation, and he believed that those fees would be sufficient or nearly sufficient, to meet the whole of the charge which the compensation would impose; so that no new burden, or at least no new burden of any considerable amount, would be thrown by that operation upon the consolidated Fund.
 MR. CRAWFORD  thought that some notice ought to be given of the way in which the Government intended to avail themselves of the powers created by this clause. The cause of the depressed state of Indian securities was owing to the fear of constantly increasing demands. He wished to know whether it was to be raised by one sum to be paid in instalments, or by sums to be raised at different periods?
 MR. CRAWFORD  inquired if the debentures under this act would rank  pari passu
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT : Yes; and the hon. Gentleman also mentioned some unpleasant circumstances connected with a commercial traveller, of which, of course, I know nothing.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he really did not understand what the point was upon which explanation was required, or what feature in the case laid before the House by the hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary was to appear in his place to defend or explain. Upon seeing the notice of the hon. Gentleman on the paper he applied to his noble and learned Friend the Lord Chancellor, with whom the immediate appointment of those magistrates rested, and was informed that the appointments had been made upon the recommendation of the Lord-Lieutenant of the county. He (Mr. Sotheron Estcourt), however did not think that it was his duty to apply to the
 17 18 19
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether he can explain the cause of the recent large addition to the Magistracy of the county of Huntingdon. They were all Reformers now, and he was sure the right hon. Gentleman would feel great pleasure in answering the question. Huntingdon appeared to be one of the most favoured of counties; at the present moment it possessed more magistrates than it did policemen. The population of the, county was only 64,000, not so large as that of several metropolitan boroughs; but it had more magistrates and not so many policemen. Of those magistrates above one half were Tories. The Lord-Lieutenant was also a Tory, and had, besides, the honour of being Master of Her Majesty's Buckhounds. And it further had the advantage of being represented by the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Secretary for War. The borough of Huntingdon was
 15 16
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  rose for the purpose of observing that if they were to have a Committee upon the naval expenditure of the country—which he thought was generally assented to by the House—it appeared to him that whether the Estimates should be presented to the House in this particular form would be a very fair subject for the Committee to inquire into and report upon. That was a matter which should come from the Committee rather than that the House should lay down any particular form. He would, therefore, respectfully suggest to his noble Friend not to press his Motion to a division, but rather to substitute for it a Resolution to the effect that a Committee should be appointed to examine into our naval expenditure, as proposed by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Portsmouth (Sir Francis Baring). He must, however, observe that he had felt rather taken at the first blush by the proposal for a Return, for it appeared to him but reasonable to suppose that if those connected with our naval departments were required to submit beforehand a statement of the amount of expenditure which they contemplated making for any particular purpose, they would be much more likely to deliberate upon the undertaking duly, than when they had merely to receive the money and lay it out without question. As in the case of erecting barracks, so in the case of shipbuilding—the necessity of furnishing such a statement might operate as a practical check on unnecessary expenditure. For his own part, he never heard that Mr. Cunard, or any of our other great steamship proprietors were continually making alterations in their vessels, such as was constantly being done by the Board of Admiralty. He believed, however, the expe-
 69 70
 MR. W. EWART  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies whether in cases of emigration by females due care is or will be taken, that the female emigants are placed under the charge of a matron duly appointed or selected by the Government? The usual course at present was, he believed, for the surgeon to choose out of the intending emigrants the one who seemed most fitted for the office; but it was needless to point out that such a system afforded no guarantee for the possession of the necessary qualifications. The character of these matrons ought to be of the best description; their position ought to be a permanent one, and lastly, they ought to be properly remunerated for their services.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that instead of the Motion of his noble Friend the Member for Sandwich doing injury to the navy, he who exposed what he considered to be its abuses or shortcomings rendered a service both to the public and to the navy. His noble Friend had investigated the subject with great labour and great industry through a period of eleven years, and he found, to his great regret, that there was a deficiency of no less than £5,000,000. In point of fact the right hon. Baronet the First Lord had admitted some days ago the substance of what the noble Lord had now stated. The right hon. Baronet was aware of the figures which his noble Friend had stated, and he had armed himself on the present occasion with statements from the Surveyor of the Navy in explanation. That statement in effect confirmed what his noble Friend had said as to the large
 72 Pearl Pearl
 MR. W. S. LINDSAY  remarked, that the first part of the Report of the Commission recommended an expenditure of not less than £100,000 of money. There might be some hon. Members who thought that it was not necessary to incur that increased expenditure, and who believed, as he did, that we should find no difficulty in manning our navy in time of peace. It would be advisable to take the sense of the House upon that Question.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he wished to put a Question to the Vice President of the Committee of Privy Council of Education, with reference to the exercise of the powers vested in the Privy Council for the protection of Public Health. He had recently called attention to the enormous rate of mortality from smallpox in certain districts, a mortality which he thought must have resulted from the want of an efficient system of vaccination—at any rate, up to the present moment no good appeared to have
 36
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, he rose to put a question to the Secretary of State for India respecting the disturbances which have taken place in Travanore:—With respect to the burning of Mission Chapels; the ill-treatment of Missionaries and Native Converts; the interruption of Low Caste funerals by men of High Caste; and the alleged conduct of the British Resident. The hon. Baronet, who was almost inaudible, said that a letter had been received from the Rev. Mr. Baylis of Negoor, South Travancore, in which the following passage occurred:—
 "The higher caste Natives, especially the Nairs (the Malayan Soodras) are rising against the Shanars, especially against those of them who are Christians. Seven of our chapels have been burnt down. ! Last night seventy-nine houses belonging to Roman. Catholics in Kotar, a large place near Nagercoil, were burnt down, and a woman and child perisnea. The British Resident's bungalow (used when he is out on circuit) has been burnt down." 23 "The Resident gave us an interview, though not at first with a very good grace, and had the Dewan present." "The present dispute is between the Soodras and other high castes on the one hand and the Shanars and other low castes on the other, and not between the heathen and Christian portion of the community." "Beating them unmercifully, plundering their houses, and setting them, as well as our chapels, on fire. In all this they are secretly, and in some instances publicly, encouraged by the Circar officials, all of whom are high caste men. The complaints of the Shanars on this score are rejected by the Government, and their evidence refused; the evidence of the Soodras only, the aggressors in the whole affair, is received by them. The British Resident, General Cullen, also sides with the high caste portion of the community, so that the Shanars, including all our Native Christians, being proscribed, have not a friend belonging to the Government who will speak a word in their behalf, or who has any desire to aid them what the people of Trarancore require, and what they ought to have, is the same privilege as the same classes enjoy in the neighbouring territory of Tin-nivelly,—namely, the liberty for men and women of all castes to dress and build their houses as they choose."
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, he would repeat his question next Friday.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, that the First Lord of the Admiralty seemed pleased that the ships lately commissioned had been manned so soon, but he must
 85
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, he could not agree with the first Lord of the Admiralty that the speech of the noble Lord had done much to shake public confidence, on the contrary he thought it would establish public confidence. The right hon. Baronet suggested that the noble Lord, instead of moving the present Resolution should have made a Motion for the removal of Sir Baldwin Walker from the office of Surveyor of the Navy. He believed the noble Lord had no intention whatever of attacking Sir Baldwin Walker, but that officer must not be held responsible for what was done, for he had no power; he was not allowed to do what he pleased; the Admiralty decided what should be done. The Board of Admiralty was the source of the evil, and he (Sir C. Napier) thought that instead of the noble Lord moving for the dismissal of Sir Baldwin Walker, he ought to have moved for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the construction of the Admiralty. How was it possible that the naval department could be efficiently conducted when upon every change of Ministry the First Lord of the Admiralty, and generally all the other Lords, were replaced by new men? He believed this was the cause of all the waste and extravagance that existed. It was impossible with new Lords constantly
 58 Queen Duke of Wellington Duke of Wellington Queen, 59
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War whether it be the fact that only 250 of the approved new Rifled Cannon were at present ordered or expected to be constructed within the current year; and if so, whether this arrangement is adequate to the present wants of the Army and Navy; and whether it would be practicable to afford Sir William Armstrong greater proportional means of construction?
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, that he wished to ask the Secretary of State for War the cause of the delay in laying before the House the Proceedings and Papers, or Data, relating to Sir Charles Trevelyan's Abolition of Army Purchase scheme, moved for on the 15th and 17th of February? There was also another question which he wished to ask, and that was, whether it be the fact that only 250 of the approved new rifled cannon are at present ordered or expected to be constructed within the current year; and, if so, whether this arrangement is adequate to the present wants of the army and navy; and whether it would be practicable to afford Sir William Armstrong greater proportional means of construction?
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that no blame could be attributed to the noble and gallant Lord for having brought the subject forward, but he thought that his Motion was very little calculated to remedy the evils which he thought existed, because the Return asked for would be hardly worth the paper on which it was written. Why did not the noble Lord go to the real way of doing business and move for a Committee, in which the noble Lord's figures might be fairly tested? Nobody could follow the noble Lord's figures as they were delivered; but why not have a Committee and see if they were correct? Probably it would be found there that the noble Lord was a better sailor than calculator, and that he had omitted a great many items which ought to be taken into account. His (Sir Francis Baring's) impression, however, was, that an inquiry into our increased naval expenditure was advisable; and he was sorry that the House allowed such statements as had just been made to pass without an inquiry. An hon. Friend had defended Sir Baldwin Walker. Now-a-days nobody was attacked. If any jobbery or wasteful expenditure were pointed out, it was always "the system," not any individual, that was attacked. But he knew Sir Baldwin Walker well enough to feel that the speech of the noble Lord would give him great pain—for everybody knew that the actual responsibility was in his bands—and that he would look anxiously for au opportunity of meeting statements which, though no personal attack was made, must in a great measure affect him. He (Sir Francis Baring) would again press the House not to be content with these vague accusations, but to go to work like men of business, and examine into the general expenditure of the navy. He was quite sure that good would come from such an investigation; the Admiralty, like other folk, were liable to mistakes; and these revisions of the establishment were from time to time extremely valuable.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  thought the Motion of the noble Lord would be attended with the good effect of bringing about
 66
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty if it is intended to consider the Claims of the Paymasters with those of the Masters, Surgeons, and Chaplains of the Royal Navy?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  asked, whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer intended to introduce any measure in reference to the issue of public money.
 SIR JAMES ELPH1NST0NE  would say one word in explanation. The reason why the crew of the gun-boat to which he alluded ate raw meat was, that they could not cook because they were obliged for twelve days to scud before a gale of wind.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, that if the noble Lord had moved for a Committee he would have supported him, for he thought that inquiry into the constitution of the Board of Admiralty was much needed. That a civilian should be First Lord of the Admiralty seemed to him as great an anomaly as if an Admiral were put into the Court of Common Pleas. As to the reconstruction of the navy, he did not think the Return asked for by the noble Lord would help to effect that object. He should recommend an examination of the American mode of dealing with their navy, for he thought there many points which might be advantageously adopted by us. What he blamed the Admiralty for was, that at the time when steam was first introduced they had not caused the whole subject of naval architecture to be thoroughly investigated, and had not pointed out to the country that the then existing navy would soon be utterly useless. He was convinced that, had a proper investigation taken place at that time, large sums of money would have been saved to the country. Even now we had not arrived at anything like perfection. Perhaps our 90 gun ships were as near the mark as it was possible to be; but the question yet to be determined was, whether they could maintain their stations during the winter off a given point. There were many similar questions which ought to be investigated by a Committee. The noble Lord opposite in bringing forward the subject that evening, had, he believed, no intention of making any personal allusions; but he was nevertheless of opinion, from the turn which the debate had taken, that it was absolutely necessary the inquiry should be pursued further, and that a Committee should with that view be appointed. With respect to our frigates, of which mention had been made in the course of the discussion, he could only say that he looked upon them as being unequal to the expectations form-ed of them; the same class of American vessels he understood to excel them in mint of stability. In support of that opinion, he might observe that he had a Few days before seen a letter which had
 67 Diadem Diadem, Sanspareil, 68
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, that it was no part of the duty of the Compensation Commissioners to inquire what would be the amount paid by way of fees in the new court; and he could give no information upon that subject. He could, with considerable confidence, state to the House that the whole amount of the compensation in that case for the proctors and all the officers of the court would not exceed £130,000 a year in England and Ireland. The sum to be paid, as far as the Commissioners had already ascertained, was £123,260 a year, of which £52,000 were to go to the London proctors; £12,500 to the English country proctors; and £8,900 to the Irish proctors, making a total for the proctors of £73,400 a year. Then there were for the Judges and officers of the court £42,010 in England, and £7,850 in Ireland; making a total for Judges and
 33
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Precisely; and my belief is that, in calculating in this way the noble Lord inevitably arrives at an erroneous conclusion. The other day I took three 50-gun frigates, of which the  Shannon 53 54 "It will be seen that during the time that that right hon. Gentleman was at the Board of Admiralty considerable additions of the smaller vessels were made, such as corvettes, sloops, and, above all, gun-boats. I am not sure whether the addition of gun-boats had not commenced in the time of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle; but our present gun-boats were chiefly added by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Halifax, and I do not think a more valuable addition has ever been made to the navy than those gunboats." 55 San Fiorenzo Immortalité, 56 bonâ fide 57
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I am sure that every one who has listened to the speech of the noble and gallant Lord, must appreciate the difficult task which I have to perform in answering it, inasmuch as it consisted throughout of details of the most minute character. Let me do the noble Lord at the outset the justice to say that he has addressed the House both with that ability and in that tone of moderation which he has shown on many former occasions. I am also perfectly confident that the object of my noble and gallant Friend is most patriotic. I entirely accept his statement at the close of his speech that his object is solely the benefit of the service. But recognizing the spirit of the noble and gallant Officer to this extent, I must add that I have heard this speech with the deepest regret, and that my belief is, that had he wished to do injury to the public service instead of to promote it, he could not have taken a surer mode than by the speech which he has just addressed to us. I assure hon. Gentlemen that I intend to meet the speech of the noble Lord as fairly as I can, and I will presently give reasons for the opinions which I have just stated. This is no ordinary moment with regard to the affairs of our navy. I stated the other night, with a fairness and candour which has been recognized by the noble Lord, as I felt it my bounden duty to state openly, the exact position in which our navy actually is. I told the House in what respects our navy had become inferior to the navies of other neighbouring countries. I pointed out the duty of Her Majesty's Government to ask Parliament and the nation to face that state of things and to grant an unusual sum of money to redress that inferiority and to restore our supremacy. My noble and gallant Friend now comes and makes a speech which, if it has any effect at all with the world, can only have the effect of shaking all confidence in the shipbuilding department of the Admiralty, and making the public believe that at a moment of great importance, when we are bound to make a great effort, those by whom alone this effort can be made are not to be trusted with the expenditure of the money which Parliament grants. [Lord C. PAGET: I did not say that.] I do not say that the noble and gallant Lord said it, but that is in the inevitable result of the speech which he has made. He told us that he was not making any attack; but, from the beginning to the end, his speech can only be rightly characterized
 50 51 52 Duke of Wellington Agamemnon
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  replied, that the Report of that Commission consisted of two separate parts. The Board of Admiralty had taken into consideration all the recommendations relating to improvements in the condition of the sailor which were comprised in the first part of the Report. He was happy to say that the Board of Admiralty approved of and had adopted every one of those recommendations, which they had considered  seriatim;
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that the regulations would be promulgated as soon as all the details were settled.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he hoped the hon. Gentleman would not press his Motion; but having voted the men and wages, he would now consent that the House should go into Committee to vote the Victuals.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had not yet received the Report of the Committee on the dockyards. The others had been received, but had not yet been submitted to his Colleagues; but after that they should immediately be laid before the House.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  replied, that the Board of Admiralty had sanctioned that recommendation, but it was impossible to carry it into effect without a detailed arrangement, which was being prepared at present.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  replied, that the Government did intend to include the claims of Paymasters with those of Masters, Surgeons, and Chaplains of the Royal Navy; and it must be understood that there would be a fair consideration of the claims which might come before them.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he knew-nothing of the circumstances of this case; but he thought it right, in justice to Lord Sandwich, to remind the hon. Member for Finsbury that no inference whatever of any kind could be drawn from the fact of a Lord-Lieutenant at one time refusing to appoint, and at another time appointing, a clergyman to the office of magistrate. In the case of his (Sir John Pakington's) own county, where they had a Lord-Lieutenant who, he was bound to say, exercised his high duties in as honourable and conscientious a manner as any man ever did, and never dreamt of what were the politics of any of the magistrates, the rule was not to put clergymen in the commission of the peace; nevertheless, he did appoint clergymen in districts where qualified laymen were not to be found; and in that part of the county with which he (Sir John Pakington) was connected there were abundant instances of his having in one case appointed a clergyman whilst in another case he had refused, and that in the most conscientious and honourable manner.
 SIR JOHN WALSH  thought that a sufficient answer had been given to the question of the hon. Member for Finsbury; but there was one rather unguarded observation which had fallen from his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary; and he should be sorry if it went forth as a correct version of the general practice of Lords-Lieutenant. He had understood his right hon. Friend to state, that it was the almost universal practice of Lords-Lieutenant to be guided by political motives in making appointments of this sort. Now, he must say, that he thought that view of his right hon. Friend was an erroneous one. He believed that the Lords-Lieutenant throughout the country were extremely cautious not to allow their political bias to influence them in these appointments; and that it would be found they had always noted upon that principle, and whenever it appeared that a
 22
 SIR RICHARD BETHELL  believed that eventually it would be found that not a single shilling would have to be paid by the country for the compensation of these officials.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, the amount was £7,990 per annum, that being the exact amount of Mr. Moore's income upon an average of three years before the passing of the Act. In all these cases the same principle had been applied in awarding compensation. As to Mr. Raikes, that gentleman had behaved with the greatest liberality, and said he did not wish to press his claim for any exorbitant amount. But it was impossible to proceed upon any different principle in considering his case from that adopted in other instances. Mr. Raikes was not entitled to the whole of what he received, but only to a certain proportion; but in consequence of the large amount of his business
 34
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  replied that it was to repeal the 32nd clause of the County Court Act, which excepted the high bailiffs of Westminster and Southwark from its provisions. The two gentlemen who held those appointments were since dead, and it was therefore thought desirable to place those appointments on the same footing with those of the other high bailiffs.
 SIR ERSKINE PERRY  inquired if it were necessary for the Secretary of State for India to apply to the House for leave every time he required a loan of money. When the Company was in existence it had to apply to Parliament for such power; but as the colonial Governments could of their own motion raise money, he wished to know if the Indian Government possessed an analogous power.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEROSSE  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether the attention of the Government has been directed to the case of the Depositors in the Tralee and Killarney Savings' Banks; and, if so, whether he can hold out any hope that compensation will be made to them for the losses they sustained by the failure of those establishments?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to ask the hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Tite) as a Member of the Metropolitan Board, what steps have been taken by that Board with reference to the Main Drainage of the Metropolis, particularly on the south side of the River.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he wished to take that, the earliest opportunity, to express his admiration of the manner in which his hon. and learned Friend had introduced this Bill, and to express his cordial concurrence with the scheme contained in it. To say that the principle of these two Bills was a judicial declaration of title was not either a full or accurate statement. The principle of these measures was the registry of the land itself—that is to say, that each piece or parcel of land should be registered in the names of certain individuals as ostensible owners to whom, and to whom alone, a purchaser would have to apply, so that the onus of investigating the title would not be as now, cast upon the purchaser, but
 102 103 104
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the hon. and learned Member for Wallingford (Mr. Malins) need not apologize for addressing the Committee upon a subject like
 113 114 115 116 117 118 119 120
 MR. CARD WELL  said, that if the ancient strongholds of English law in regard to conveyancing could be sustained, he was sure that they would be by the persevering zeal of the hon. and learned Member for Wallingford. One would imagine from the observations of the hon. and learned Member that settlements and family dispositions were wholly unknown in the case of stock in the funds and personal property; but so far was that from being the fact, that all those provisions for a man's wife and family, the importance of which the hon. and learned Gentleman urged with so much eloquence, were: made every day by means of funded property, unincumbered by any of those difficulties which had rendered the law of landed property in this country a byword and a reproach. The transfer of funded property was effected with ease and the question was whether the same principles could not be applied to land. It was said, indeed, that there was a difference in the nature of the property, but a further question then arose, whether that was a sufficient answer. They hid the advantage of experience on the subject. For ten years there had been in operation a Court which had dealt with landed property with signal success upon the same principle which applied to funded property, and although the hon. and learned Gentleman said that it had been in operation for too short a period to be conclusive in its results, it had, at all events, led to more than £20,000,000 being invested in the purchase of land, a channel into which money could not formerly find its way, owing to the complexity of the details, and the general difficulty of the subject. The establishment of that Court had done more almost than any Act of Parliament which had been passed in
 128 129
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he did not propose to proceed any further that evening, either with that Bill or the next on the paper, than the first Clause that involved the principle of the measure.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he rose to move that these Estimates be referred to a Select Committee. He wished to advert for a moment to the cause of the merriment which he had created the other night, no doubt by his being too late to get to his place. The House was so full that there was no seat vacant. He had consequently to go into the gallery. He hastened down when the House went into Committee; but being unable to find a seat, he attempted to address them from another part of the House, which he understood was contrary to etiquette. He thought that a very strong case for granting the Committee for which he moved had been made out by the noble Lord the Member for Sandwich (Lord C. Paget) when he said that, out of an expenditure of £19,000,000 in eleven years there was a sum of £5,000,000 which could not be accounted for. The First Lord of the Admiralty had said that he would lay papers on the table giving an account of the expenditure or waste of the£5,000,000. He (Mr. W. Williams) had no doubt of the light hon. Gentleman's ability to do so, for it had never been suggested that the money bad been disposed of in any dishonest or dishonourable way. He had gone through the Estimates since 1816, and found that since that period the astonishing sum of £281,000,000 had been voted for the navy, or, with the additional Votes,
 130 131
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, his apology for not answering the question of the noble Lord was that he really could not have anticipated it. He had endeavoured in the few observatious he had made simply to answer the objections made to the Bill and it did not occur to him to anticipate what might be the view taken of the Bill by the noble Lord. The noble Lord said, in the first place, it appeared that in this country it was a rare thing for a title which had once passed through a conveyancer's hands to be afterwards impeached, and that the result of that would probably be that, even if you established a Court with power to investigate titles, few persons would resort to it. But he was sure the noble Lord had not examined what were the irksomeness and inconveniences of the present system with regard to titles to land. He (the Solicitor General), of course, did not mean to deny that at a certain expense and after a certain delay, you could sell and purchase landed property. That was merely a question of a certain number of months and a certain number of pounds of expense. But the great evil was that after all that was undergone you had not advanced one step if you wished to have further dealings with your estate. If you wanted to borrow money on your title the next month, if you wanted to sell again, if you had trustees and they had to sell for you the same delay and the same expense must be gone over again, and that would have to be repeated as often as the estate happened to be transferred. Nay, more; several estates were sold in lots for building purposes; if you sold your estate in 50 or 100 lots, every purchaser was entitled to an abstract of your title. The expense was frequently so considerable that persons were deterred from selling their estates in lots. Whatever was thus paid was deducted from the value of the estate, and it mattered
 123 124
 MR. GILPIN  said, he rose, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of the House to the destruction of the 26th Native Infantry at Ujnalla on the 1st of August, 1857, as detailed in a work entitled  The Crisis in the Punjab, 147 148 "The 26th Native Infantry, stationed under surveillance at Meean Meer, was disarmed on the 13th of May last. Whether there had been any preconcerted scheme among the disarmed regiments for a general attempt to escape from their unpleasant position, is not known; though it has been generally understood that lots had actually been drawn, and that had the 26th succeeded in. any measure the 10th Grenadiers had engaged to follow in their wake. Some say that the noonday gun was to be the signal of a general rise. Society, on the 30th of July, was, however, shocked to hear of another foul murder of a commanding officer, Major Spencer, and the rise of the 26th regiment. Lieutenant Montague White narrowly escaped, he was enticed into the lines by some Sepoys, who affected sorrow at the murder, and was about to dismount, when a warning voice in his ear told him to beware. He galloped off; but not before some hand had aimed a felon stroke at him, and wounded his horse. The sergeant-major was also killed, and the regiment precipitately fled; a dust-storm (as was the case at Jullundur when the mutiny arose) raging at the time, favouring their immediate escape, and concealing its exact direction. They were not, however, unmolested; and it is feared that the ardour of the Sikh levies, in firing when the first outbreak occurred, precipitated the murders and frightened all, good, bad, or indifferently disposed, to flight, From subsequent
 149 alias 150 151 "Ten by ten the Sepoys were called forth. Their names having been taken down in succession, they were pinioned, linked together, and marched to execution; a firing party being in readiness. Every phase of deportment was manifested by the doomed men, after the sullen firing of volleys of distant musketry forced the conviction of inevitable death; astonishment, rage, frantic despair, the most stoic calmness. One detachment, as they passed, yelled to the solitary Anglo-Saxon magistrate, as he sat under the shade of the police station performing his solemn duty, with his Native officials around him, that he, the Christian, would meet the same fate; then, as they passed the reserve of young Sikh soldiery who were to relieve the executioners after a certain period, they danced, though pinioned, insulted the Sikh religion, and called on Gungajee to aid them; but they only in one instance provoked a reply, which was instantaneously checked. Others again petitioned to be allowed to make one last 'salaam' to the Sahib. About 150 having been thus executed,
 152 "The execution of the 26th, as detailed by Mr. Cooper, is truly such a cannibal affair that I am relieved to find that it was not a military man who commanded the massacre. Such a deed would stain the escutcheon of any civilized army in the world with indelible disgrace. Taking the facts upon the perpetrator's own showing, the wholesale murder was wholly unnecessary, inhuman, and unjustifiable. I say this as a military man." 153 Non nobis Domine. "Lahore, August 2, 1857. "My dear Cooper.—I congratulate you on your success against the 26th Native Infantry. You and your police acted with much energy and spirit, and deserve welt of the State. I trust the fate of these Sepoys will operate as a warning to others. Every effort should be exerted to glean up all who are yet at large. "Roberts will, no doubt, leave the distribution of the rewards mainly to you. Pray sec that they are allotted with due regard to merit, and that every one gets what is intended for him. Yours sincerely, "JOHN LAWRENCE." "Frederick Cooper, Esq., D.C., Umritzur." "Sunday, 9 A.M. "My dear Cooper,—All honour to you for what you have done, and right well you did it. There was no hesitation or delay, or drawing back. It will be a feather to your cap as long as you live. [It must be a bloody feather] "Get out of the wounded man all you can and
 154 "Better write an official report, and place the whole on record. Bring forward all persons who did well. Do this judiciously. I mean discriminate between the medium, the good, and the super-excellent. " Primâ, facie, "You will have abundant money to reward all, and the (executioners) Sikhs should have a good round sum given to them. "I congratulate you very heartily on your success. There will be some stragglers; have them all picked up, and any you got send us now. You have had slaughter enough. We want a few for the troops here, and also for evidence. Believe me, yours sincerely, "R. MONTGOMERY.' "F, Cooper, Esq., D.C." "P.S. The other three regiments hero were very shaky yesterday, but I hardly think they will now go. I wish they would, as they are a nuisance; and not a man would escape if they do.—R. M." 155
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, I have no reason to complain of the course which the hon. Member who brought on this discussion has taken in using what is, no doubt, a fair opportunity of bringing before the House an important subject; but I cannot help regretting, that the hon. and gallant Gentleman who has followed him has thought fit to mix up with what is undoubtedly a serious and painful circumstance, some old stories from newspapers which are probably untrue, and which, if they were true, would be utterly unimportant. It is impossible to deny that these transactions to which reference has been made are such as cannot be heard or read, even at this distance of time and place, without great pain and regret. And I will go further, and say that that pain is greatly increased by the tone and the spirit in which these transactions have been described, both in the despatch written at the time and in the book subsequently published by the gentleman who gave instructions to the Sikhs engaged in this affair. There is a tone of flippancy, and an appearance of exultation at that great sacrifice of human life—a sacrifice of life made not in the heat of action, nor after a judicial process—which is utterly at variance with good taste and good feeling. Making all allowances—and we are bound to make the
 158 159 160
 ADMIRAL DUNCOMBE  said, it appeared from the statements made that the Coastguard was 700 or 800 below the number voted. It was evident, therefore, that there was still something wrong, and that we had not that reserve which was necessary in case of an emergency.
 MR. CORRY  said, that the revenue cut-
 163
 GENERAL PEEL  said, that in reply to what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman, he had great pleasure in announcing that it was the intention of the Government to raise the allowance from 1½d. to 4 d. d. d. d.
 Mr. EDWIN JAMES  said, he was glad of an opportunity of testifying to the extreme courtesy and kindness of the right hon. Gentleman in listening to the complaints that had been made upon this subject, and to the conciliatory spirit in which he met the objections which had been made to the present system.
 MR. RIDLEY  said, he wished to ask whether or not the recruits raised in Sunderland, Shields, and other towns of Yorkshire, would be removable at once to barracks in York.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he thought it would not be practicable to remove recruits immediately to the barracks at York.
 GENERAL CODRINGTON  asked whether the practice of giving money to soldiers to buy them out, as it was called, whereby a separate bargain was made with the innkeeper was to be continued?
 GENERAL PEEL  said, that with every desire to adopt the proposal that the payment should be made by the billet-master, it had been found necessary to postpone any alteration in that respect till it had been seen how the new system would work.
 GENERAL CODRINGTON  said, he desired to ask whether the Marine Mutiny Act relating to sailors on shore would contain the same provisions as the former Mutiny Bill?
 MR. CORRY  said, that no alteration was proposed to the billeting of sailors on shore.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : I entertain a very decided objection to a proposition which would refer the Naval Estimates to a Select Committee, because it would remove from the Executive power a responsibility which, I believe, it is most important to retain and enforce. If there be one man who would rejoice more than another, if the accounts for buildings and repairs of ships were so submitted, it is the present Surveyor of the Navy. For commanding ability and untiring zeal no officer more efficient could be found, and, I must Bay, his position requires that he should occupy a permanent seat at the Board of Admiralty. At no time could any argument, even on the plea of additional expense, be alleged against such an appointment; at the present moment, one most worthy of consideration, when the construction of ships, so as to ensure the highest qualities of speed under sail or canvass, was of the utmost national importance, and. every first-rate ship cost between £200,0p0 and £300,000. While I give full credit to my noble and gallant Relative (Lord C. Paget) for the highest motives, I would divest both him and hon. Members of some wrong impressions conveyed in his speech on the 11th instant. The noble Admiral referred to the instance of the  San Fiorenzo Immortalilé, 136 137
 GENERAL THOMPSON  had been much conversant with public assemblies, and had been used to boast to himself that he could follow any man. But he could not follow the speech they had just heard, or add a word that would not weaken the effect of the statement their pacific Friend had made. He could not add to the colouring, but he might make some naked addition to the facts. Neither he nor his hon. Friend was present in India at these scenes; he wished they had, because then they could offer themselves as evidence. But the public papers would enable the House to form a judgment, and he would 'appeal to them as the best and only evidence they had. He gathered from them what had not been mentioned—namely, that this regiment had been disarmed, and it was boasted that any of the men who in small bodies attempted to escape were destroyed by the hostile population. Orders were despatched that these men should be sent off in small bodies, to take the fate it had been boasted must befall them. He did not blame the Governor General, and he did not blame the Indian Government; for neither Queen, nor Parliament, nor Governor General ruled in India, but the race of abandoned men who had usurped the powers of them all, and left upon record the blackest page that history could produce. No act of Pagan or mediaeval times could match it. He was once present where an armed populace broke in, and proposed to slaughter some prisoners—at Buenos Ayres—of whom he was one. A quartermaster of Horse Ar-
 156 157
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he
 140
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, he rose to express a hope that it would not be considered that those hon. Gentlemen who dissented from the views of the hon. Member for Lambeth did not therefore entertain a desire for inquiry on the subject of the navy. He believed it was undeniable that the statements which had recently been made on the subject of the navy had produced an extraordinary effect upon the public mind, and his decided opinion was, that it was absolutely essential that the public feeling should be satisfied by means of an inquiry. He thought it absolutely necessary that the present, or any other Government, should consent to such an investigation; but at the same time he conceived that it would be highly injurious to the interests of the navy and of the country if the Executive were allowed to divest themselves of responsibility, and to throw it upon a Committee, which was the course proposed by the hon. Member for Lambeth.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he wished to say a few words in reference to the latter part of the hon. and learned Gentleman's speech. He had expected that the hon. and learned Solicitor General would have answered what appeared to him to have resulted very much from the observations made on both sides of the question. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole) the hon. and learned Member for Walling-ford (Mr. Malins) and others had stated this to be the state of things with regard to the title to landed property; that solicitors and conveyancers who were most conversant with this species of business were of opinion that in almost every case the titles that they examined were good, and it very seldom happened that a title which had been decided by a conveyancer to be a good title was afterwards called in
 121 122
 MR. BLACK  said, he could corroborate the remarks of the hon. Member who had just spoken. In his opinion the proposals of the gallant General were perfectly just and fair.
 MR. LEFROY  said, he rose to ask if the Secretary of State for the Home Department intends to bring under the consideration of the House any plan by which those persons in Ireland who cannot at present participate in the Grant for National Education may be enabled to do so.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, in reply to the inquiry of the hon. Member, relative to the establishing
 95
 MR. COWAN , who had given notice of a Motion condemnatory of the practice of billeting in Scotland, said, that after the changes in that system which had been made by the gallant General the Secretary of State for War, and especially after the increase of the rate of remuneration which had to a great extent remedied the evils which were complained of, he should not move his Re-
 165
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he wished to ask whether the number of Coast Volunteers had increased since last year.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  observed, he was surprised at this, because in the first year only three or four men out of 300 or 400 were absent from drill.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he fully agreed that the Amendment was not convenient at this period. But he rose to offer an observation or two. The last; speaker had expressed his conviction from his experience as a shipowner that the lengthening of the  Immortalité Immortalité.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he had always thought it to be of the greatest possible importance to keep the greatest possible number of old men-of-wars men in the Coastguard. This would show the merchant service what good things the navy led to. He wished to receive an answer to the question he had put to the right hon. Baronet. As he understood, the best men were employed ashore, and the inferior class on board ship. He wanted to know why the increase of the men on board ship was caused by a diminution of those on shore.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he hoped the First Lord of the Admiralty would give some explanation of what he intended to do in reference to the Coastguard. It included two descriptions of men,—old civilians not available for the sea service, and seamen. Some of the seamen had served in ships of war, had been discharged with a good character, and, as a reward, had been employed in the Coastguard. But there were a certain number of men employed who had not served in the navy. It was obvious that the most valuable men were those who had been trained; in case of need they would serve as the nucleus of the crews of ships of war. It was most desirable to increase the number of the Coastguard men as much as possible, and the Manning Commissioners recommended that this force should be raised from 10,000 to 12,000. This augmentation could only be made gradually year by year, as the class of men whom they required could not be obtained at once. When he was at the Admiralty he took a vote for 10,000 men, though he only expected to raise 9,000 of them at once, and that number was nearly obtained; and he thought that subsequent events had proved that he had formed a correct idea of the value of this class of men. This year, however, there was no increase proposed in the Coastguard seamen, and it was to be hoped that the First Lord of the Admiralty would explain why he had not followed the course which it was understood was to be pursued when this force was established,—namely, to increase it as rapidly as circumstances would permit.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, if the Coastguard were to be rapidly raised either to 10,000, at which it stood under the Act of Parliament, or to 12,000, which the Commissioners recommended, it would be necessary to relax the present rule with regard to admission to that service. Men were anxious to obtain situations in the Coastguard, and when the Government began to make their reserve from the merchant service he would suggest that they should admit to the Coastguard men who had volunteered for the reserve. They would thus fill the Coastguard, and give a valuable stimulus to the merchant service to form a reserve for the navy.
 MR. CARDWELL  was of opinion that, when it was well understood the old system of impressment would not be again resorted to there would be no limit to the number of volunteers that the country might obtain. It would, however, be better to discuss the whole subject on another occasion, and in a more formal manner.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he thought the remarks which had fallen from the right hon. Baronet were most valuable with regard to the expediency of going into Committee. But he wished to set himself right with the House on one point. He had always argued, and he thought justly—[An hon. MEMBER: Hear, hear!]—he thanked his hon. Friend for that cheer—that the present constitution of the Admiralty required great alteration. But, having made that statement, he would add that he thought no course could be adopted by the House more prejudicial than that suggested by the hon. Member for Lambeth. He could see nothing calculated to be more detrimental to the well-being of the country than the appointment of a Committee—even were that Committee presided over by the hon. Member for Lambeth—and he hoped the House would negative the proposal in so decided a manner as that on future occasions such Motions would not be interposed to delay the business of the country.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he regretted that this Bill had not been discussed more fully and effectually, for the objections to it were both numerous and weighty. He concurred in the sentiments of the hon. and learned Member for Wallingford, whose eminence as a conveyancer was generally acknowledged; and he was glad that hon. and learned Member had expressed his opinions on this important Bill. No measures like that before the House, to accomplish the objects proposed by the learned Solicitor General could be safely enacted unless the law was changed, so as to make the owner of the legal estate in freehold and other property, whether a trustee or otherwise, the absolute proprietor, and empower him to discharge the property itself, from all equitable and other interests, under settlements, wills, and like instruments. That, however, was the actual state of the law, in respect to trustees and others interested in Government stock, India stock, railway stock, monies out on mortgage, and the like; and in all these cases trustees, as well as owners, liable to
 108 109
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to establish Inland Bonding Warehouses in England and other parts of the United Kingdom.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he hoped the hon. Member for Lambeth would not press his Motion to a division, as there seemed to be a general feeling that it would be inexpedient to refer those Estimates to a Select Committee. He would not go into details on the subject; but after the serious charges which had been brought by no common Member of the House, but by an admiral of great distinction in Her Majesty's service—one not only distinguished on his own element, but having peculiar opportunities of knowing all the arcana connected with ship-building—when that Member got up in the House and accused a Department of having wasted £5,000,000 of money of which there was no account, he thought it could hardly be expected that that House would be content with the offer of the right hon. Gentleman. He knew that he, as one of its Members, and having been connected with a former Board of Admiralty, should not be content by the offer of settling the question by producing
 144 Immortalité, San Fiorenzo,
 MR. MALINS  said, the House was going to consider in detail the provisions of a measure the merits of which they had not yet discussed. For himself, he had very great doubts whether it would be found very extensive in its operations, or prove so beneficial as his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General (Sir Hugh Cairns) anticipated it would. As he had accidentally lost the opportunity of raising a discussion on those points when the Speaker put the Motion, he should now, with the permission of the Committee, proceed to do so, and for that purpose move,  pro formâ, 96 97 98 99 100 101
 MR. MALINS  said, the right hon. Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Walpole) had characterized his argument against the establishment of the proposed Court as "weak." If there were any weakness apparent in it, that weakness was fully compensated by the strong words used in the Report of the Committee that sat upon this subject in 1856, of which Committee the rht hon. Member was himself Chairman. That Report stated that the Committee
 "Had come to a conclusion adverse to the creation of a tribunal with the power of deciding on titles to land. The object might be good where estates were much embarrassed, but the same principle was hardly applicable in another state of society, in which there was not the same necessity of a change of ownership." 126 127
 MR. SLANEY  said, he rose to bear the testimony of his gratitude to the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Solicitor General) and Her Majesty's Government for having brought in the measure. He happened to have been Chairman of a Committee relative to the condition of the working classes, and he was satisfied that nothing could aid those classes more than a Bill whose object was to simplify the transfer of landed property. He looked upon this measure, therefore, at once as a boon to the landed interest, as of much value to all who wished to make investments in small portions of land, and of the greatest possible benefit to the country at large. It had been long wanted, and he believed that without injuring any one it would give increased value to landed property, and enable many persons in the vicinity of towns to obtain small portions of land, which they could not do under the existing complex system of law, unless they first went to the expense of examining intricate questions of title.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the arguments which had been urged against the Bill by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Wallingford—than whom no one was more competent to give an opinion on a question relating to the law of real property—were in his opinion (with respect be it spoken), so weak as to show that the objections were not very formidable. The objections which had been put forward by the hon. and learned Gentleman might be classed under two heads—firstly, that the granting of a judicial declaration of title to land was an entirely new proceeding in this country; secondly, that the Bill, if it were to pass into a law, would either be wholly inoperative or would apply only to cases in which its operation would be mischievous. Now, in answer to the first of those objections, he (Mr. Walpole) might state that the system of fine and non-claim, which was well known in our legal proceedings, amounted in effect to a judicial declaration of title, so that the Bill could not justly be said to introduce a principle which was perfectly novel. And with regard to the second objection, what, let him ask, would the new Court do when application was made to it for a declaration of title by a person who claimed to be owner in fee simple before it acceded to the request? It would do in substance that which was now done by the purchaser in his own behalf. It would appoint its own conveyancer and solicitor to examine whether a good title to the property in question existed; abstracts of title would be produced; objections would be taken, and, if they admitted of it, cleared up; and then, if the Court were satisfied with the result of the investigation, it would pronounce the title to be good. All that would take place under the operation of the Bill. Everybody who was conversant with the subject was aware that there was hardly an instance where the soundness of a title which had been carefully inquired into by an experienced conveyancer and solicitor, had afterwards turned out to be defective. The process which he had just described was that which was now gone through
 110 111 112 extenso
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he must confess that during the ten days—for it was only ten days—that he had held his present office, he had not bad an opportunity of considering the subject, which be thought required to be fully examined before any person ventured to take upon himself either to bring forward a measure or determine what ought to be done with regard to it. The only answer he could give his hon. Friend, therefore, was that he had no present intention of moving in the matter; but his hon. Friend and the House might depend upon it that should be form such an intention be would give them an opportunity both of knowing what was proposed to be done and of expressing an opinion thereon.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that if the hon. Member for Lambeth had moved for a Committee to inquire into the naval expenditure in the dockyards he should have voted with him. He could not, however, support the present Motion for referring the Naval Estimates to a Committee, be- cause that would be to take the responsibility of the Estimates from the Executive, upon whom it ought to rest.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he had been informed that nearly 600 men had been taken, from the Coastguard to man the ships in commission. If that were so, it would seem to indicate that there was a difficulty in getting seamen for the navy.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he had come to a different conclusion. It was true that the Volunteers were not to go more than 100 leagues from the shore, but there were many services in which they would be able to supply very important aid. Still there was one great defect in the volunteer system, and he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet if he could state how many of them were absent from drill last year. He understood that out of 7,000 only 3,000 or 4,000 could be relied upon.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that the people of this country were lavish in their expenditure to support the natural defence of the
 134 135
 MR. TITE  replied, that he had but very recently joined the board; but he had asked its very able chairman for the information his hon. Friend required, and he believed he should be able to give him a correct answer to his question. On the south side of the river there were two systems of sewers, the high level and the low level. The high level sewer began at Clapham, and ended at Deptford; its length, including branches, would be 10 miles; and the estimated cost was £203,000. The contracts for the work had been concluded this week. The low level sewer began a Putney, and ended also at the same point as the high level—namely, at Deptford. With its branches it would be 11 miles in length, and the contracts for it would be advertised in June. The two systems of drainage for the south side of the river
 94 d
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, he thought if some extra inducement were offered to the men of the Coast Volunteers they would be more willing to serve, such for instance as a dinner on a Sunday, and that if more organized they would be found an efficient force.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, he had been told that the fitting-out and changing of the nine block-ships had cost £164,000. He could not understand where the money had been put. The operation upon a single ship could be accomplished in forty-eight hours. He could not understand where the money could have gone.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER : Was it true that only about 200 men had accepted the short-service pension of 6 d.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, he wished to ask why the number of Coast Volunteers was not given in the Estimates? All the particulars that the Committee was furnished with were the sums of money which were required for this branch of the service. There were at present rather more than 7,000 Naval Coast Volunteers. He
 162
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, he was of opinion that a Committee should, both. in justice to the noble Lord the Member for Sandwich, (Lord C. Paget) as well as to the Admiralty, be appointed, and he might also observe that, as a notice of Motion for inquiring into the state of the Navy stood
 145 Duke of Wellington St. Vincent
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, he thought this would be a good opportunity of throwing out a suggestion to the right hon. Baronet, namely, whether it would not be bettor on all occasions when complaints were brought against a sailor that the captain should be directed to order an inquiry to be made by some other officers of the ship. It was very often a painful thing for the captain, who had the power of remitting punishment, to insist upon the punishment being carried out in the discharge of his duty, which would not arise if, in all cases, a ship court-martial were to pass sentence upon the offender. In making these observations he did not wish it to be thought that he was at all of opinion that the amount of flogging in the navy was excessive.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, no man was more desirous than he was of exerting an effectual supervision over the public expenditure, and he thought it very important that there should be an inquiry, but it was impossible for him to vote for the Motion of the hon. Member for Lambeth, because he did not think it advisable to transfer the consideration of the Estimates from the House to a Select Committee. He thought the preferable course was that the Estimates should be brought forward and discussed in the House under the superintendence of the Government. He deemed this course the more advisable on the present occasion because time was pressing, and as they heard statements which were not of a very comfortable nature, he thought the House of Commons ought at once to give the Executive Government the supplies which would enable them to proceed with such preparations as upon their responsibility they might deem necessary for the defence of the country. With regard to inquiry, he had no doubt they would ultimately have one. Some hon. Gentlemen demanded an investigation on the part of the country, but in his opinion another strong reason for inquiry was that accusations had been made that evening against different members of successive Boards of Admiralty. It was impossible that all those gentlemen could enter upon their defence on that occasion, but he thought that in justice to Sir Baldwin Walker, and others whose conduct has been impugned, an opportunity for a searching inquiry into the truth of the accusations ought to be afforded. He had no doubt it could readily He shown that there was the greatest misunderstanding with regard to some of those accusations. A charge had been made against him that he had not ordered the building of steam line-of-battle ships when in office. That subject was carefully considered by the Committee of 1848, and if the Report of that Committee were referred to it would be found that at that time we had four block-ships and were considerably in advance of France with regard to a steam navy, but it was also shown that, in consequence of the scientific improvements which were constantly made, the probability was that if
 138 Sanspareil Agamemnon, Windsor Castle, Windsor Castle Windsor Castle Duke of Wellington, Windsor Castle, Duke of Wellington, 139 Duke of Wellington
 MR. BOWYER  said, he did not rise to oppose the Bill, but to make a few observations on the important question to which, it referred. He believed, that the discussion of the subject would be attended with advantage, but he was by no means sanguine as to the utility of the Bill if it should pass into law. He objected to the measure because it was apparently a sort of palliation of the bad state of the law of real property. In his opinion, the proper mode of dealing with that question was to ascertain what were the defects of the law, and what were the reasons which prevented the easy transfer of real property, and consequently diminished its value. But what did this Bill propose to do? The Bill attempted to facilitate the transfer of land irrespectively to the law which governed real property. The Bill proposed to create a Court of a most anomalous description, upon which it was proposed to confer a jurisdiction unparalleled in the history of jurisprudence, unparalleled anywhere except in Ireland; and even there
 105 judex actor et reus; Quis accusavit? 106 107 amicus juris præscriptio.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  seconded the Motion, and said, that never since he had had a seat in that House had he heard such an account given of the navy, and it was a matter of the deepest regret, if not of shame, to find that our navy had been reduced to such a state as that which had been described. The right hon. Gentleman had objected to lay on the table an estimate of the future repairs and public works for each year, but was there any objection to doing the same as regarded the past? It would very much facilitate the performance of the duties of the House, in giving them an accurate account of the various sums that had been expended. The right hon. Gentleman had shown the wretched condition of our navy, and especially of our dockyards; but when he took office he struck out of the Estimates 1,300 men that had been placed there by his predecessors, and now he came forward and complained of a want of men and of want of efficiency in our navy. He (the hon. Member) would support the proposal for a Committee. It was not against the Admiralty, or its representatives past or present, but against the system that he supported the Motion.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he was very much disposed to concur with the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Williams). At the same time he thought the inquiry as proposed would be rather too extensive, and that it should be confined to the salient points, and one of these points to which inquiry should be directed was, the extraordinary and unsatisfactory manner in which the Estimates were prepared and laid before the House. A Vote was taken the other night irregularly in the middle of the Army Estimates of £133,000 for an excess of expenditure in 1857–8; but was the House aware that in that year there was an expenditure over the amount of money granted by the House to the extent of £790,000? The sum granted was £9,172,000, and the sum spent was £9,962,000. It was clear that Her Majesty's present Government had nothing to do with these expenses, but he did feel surprised that some of the items had not appeared in the accounts for the year 1858–9. Of course emergencies would arise, and he was not the person to quarrel with the fair discretion of the Executive; but this House had nothing to do with the Executive. All it had
 133
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, it was generally acknowledged that the men of the north of Scotland were extremely fine men, and, indeed, it had been said of them that they were a race of giants, but they were found to be very averse to going far from their homes, and were not to be relied upon as a naval force. The restrictions existing, especially with regard to their not serving more than 100 leagues from the land, rendered such a force one which it was not desirable should be absorbed in the reserve proposed to be created.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he ought to mention that though it was the opinion of the Committee who sat on this subject that the Coast Volunteers might be superseded by a more efficient force, yet, as far as it had gone, great benefit had resulted from the institution of that corps. It had habituated the men of the north to the discipline observed on board men of war, and thus paved the way to the creation of a large and useful force in cases of emergency. Among other suggestions made, it had been proposed that a gun should be placed at each port, under the direction of old mariners, and that the inhabitants should be practised in the use of the gun, the best shot receiving a shilling reward, or some encouragement of a similar nature; this would induce the attainment of a great knowledge of gunnery among such men.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he
 164
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Yes. The number was small; it was about that number.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that the number last year was about 6,000; at present it was between 7,000 and 8,000. He might also state that the number of men who had entered from the west coast of Scotland was between 400 and 500.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I hope the House will think the view taken by my hon. Friend (Mr. Bentinck) and by the right hon. Baronet (Sir Francis Baring) a sound one, and will not accede to the Motion. I hope also that the House will not forget what has fallen from the right hon. Baronet with regard to that noble and magnificent ship the  Duke of Wellington, 141 142 143
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, it was true that a few men had been allowed to volunteer from the Coastguard ships, but they were very few. They had manned two ships of the line and two frigates recently with a rapidity which was very uncommon. In fact they were deriving the advantages of the continuous service of the men of the fleet, and of experienced sailors, who had recently come home from foreign ships in Her Majesty's service. The number of Volunteers was about 7,000.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he entirely agreed with the right hon. Gentleman as to the value and importance of the Coastguard, and felt great satisfaction that the Manning Commission had recommended that this excellent reserve should be increased. The reason why he had not asked for a larger number of men for this force was, because they were at present many hundreds short of the strength granted by Parliament, and therefore any increase for this year would have been merely nomimal. The deficiency throughout the year ranged between 700 and 800 men.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, in consequence of the statement made by the noble Lord the Member for Sandwich (Lord C. Paget) on Friday evening, to the effect that within the last eleven years, out of the money voted from time to time by this House for the expense of the dockyards, no less than £5,000,000 has been either unaccounted for or devoted to what the noble Lord termed reckless alterations, I wish to give notice that in the course of a day or two it is my intention to lay upon the Table, together with those Reports of Committees which I have already promised, a full statement of the mode in which the monies voted by this House, during these eleven years, have been appropriated. It is also my intention that that statement shall be given in as much detail as it is in the power of the Department of the Surveyor of the Navy to supply it.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  observed, that the hon. and gallant Admiral was not strictly in order, inasmuch as this Bill related merely to sailors whilst on shore; but he begged to assure the hon. and gallant Admiral that the whole subject of naval courts-martial was under the consideration of the Government.
 SIR ERSKINE PERRY  said, he had sat on the Committee to which the hon. and learned Solicitor General had referred, and he could therefore explain the reason why it was thought inexpedient to transfer the jurisdiction of the Irish Incumbered Estates Court to the Chancery Court. That conclusion was arrived at after most ample discussion, and in opposition to the views both of the late, and of the present Attorney General for Ireland. It was clearly perceived that the safe operation of the Court depended entirely on the mode and accuracy with which the investigation of titles was conducted; now to perform such duties well required the special knowledge of a conveyancer, which constituted a science in itself, and one with which the most eminent Equity Judges were frequently not conversant. The Master of the Rolls, one of the highest authorities upon such a subject, had admitted that even he should feel himself incompetent to discharge those duties. That being so, if the transfer had been made to the Court of Chancery, the Judges would have been compelled to delegate the performance of these duties to conveyancers, or, in other words, to irresponsible individuals. As a practical reformer he highly approved of the proposed Bill as a whole; not only for its immediate objects, but because it provided for a procedure of an admirable description—one that he would call philosophical. All law reforms during this century, and since the period when Bentham first began to write, had mainly for object the simplication of law procedure, for the purpose of enabling the suitor to bring before the Judge the subject of controversy in the simplest, the speediest, and most economical form consistent with justice. But the Incumbered Estates Court Judges in Ireland had framed their rules of procedure entirely on such a system, and, in point of fact, they formed a model for any other Court. And he trusted that with the transference of Judge Hargreave to the new Court to be established in England, the same simple system would be established here. As to the Court not finding sufficient business to employ its time for the first three or four years, that might be easily provided for by commencing with appointment of one Judge only. But there was one defect in the Bill. It conferred great benefits
 125
 MR. BOVILL  said, that having called the attention of the House to this subject about two years ago, he also wished to express the gratitude felt by those persons who had been aggrieved by the old system.
 MR. JACKSON  said, his experience as a shipowner led him to the conclusion that the hon. Member for Dovor (Mr. B. Osborne) must be labouring under a mistake if he supposed the  Immortalité s. s. 146 s
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, he was anxious to state his views upon the question before the House, because he had always contended against the total abolition of church rates, and he had been anxious to obtain a compromise, and with that view had supported the measure lately introduced to the House by the right hon. Member for Cambridge University, in the hope that it might be possible in Committee to effect such alterations in the scheme as would lend to a satisfactory settlement. But after the strong opinion the House had expressed, he could not help feeling that so far as it was concerned all hope of compromise was gone. He did not mean to say that they were resolved to adopt the hon. Baronet's Bill "pure and simple," but he took the late division as an absolute declaration on the part of the House that this disease which had so long festered in the community would yield to no remedy but absolute excision. He did not think that the present system was an injustice to Dissenters. This tax was sometimes designated a charge upon property, and sometimes a personal charge. If it was a charge upon property, it must be remembered that on that account the pro-
 187 188 189
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, be did not care whether church rates were in their origin legal or illegal; they bad to deal with church rates, not as regarded their origin, but as they stood at the present time. Church rates are legal now, but they had altered their character greatly within the last few years, They used to be regarded as a charge on land; but now that they could no longer be imposed except by the consent of a majority, be need not say they were no longer a certain charge on land. He did not think they could class church rates with tithe. Tithes were property. The parson's right was as good as the squire's every inch, and what was more it was often a good deal older. Church rates, however, were very different. Of late it had been decided that no community need pay the rate unless it pleased them to do so, which was quite a different thing from the payment of tithes. Nothing could be more fatal to the interests of the Church than coupling such things together. By so doing they might destroy tithes, but could not save church rates. It was admitted on all hands that the present state of the law in respect to church rates was unsatisfactory; but so it was upon many other points, and before he agreed to any change he wished to compare the present state with that which would exist if the proposed remedy was adopted. The rule that a majority should decide, although it might sometimes hear hardly upon minorities, was common in our institutions, and the question was whether the inconvenience of the present system was so great that there must cither be entire abolition or immediate measures which, he thought, were no remedies at all. He regretted that he had been unable to
 190 191
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he thought it must be admitted, with the hon. Member for Dovor (Mr. B. Osborne) that the time for compromise had gone by —at all events for the present—and he was willing to take the issue on the second reading of this Bill, It was impossible not to see and to admit that a very great change had taken place not only in the bearings of the question itself but in the arguments by which it was supported. Formerly they were told that church rates ought to be modified or abolished in order to meet the conscientious objections of Dissenters. Whatever else might be said of the Bill of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole), it must at least be admitted that its effect would have been to relieve those conscientious objections, and to remove parochial dissensions and social differences. It had been defeated, not by Churchmen, but by Dissenters. The conclusion to be drawn from that fact was that the necessity for a change in the law no longer existed on the grounds formerly advanced by the opponents of church rates, and they must look elsewhere for the reasons which prompted the hon. Baronet the Member for Tavistock and those who supported him. Those reasons were to be found very broadly advanced in a publication to which he (Lord J. Manners) would not more particularly advert. They were that church rates should be abolished, first, because they were an absolute injustice to every one; and, secondly, not so much as being objectionable in themselves, as because they were part of a system the abolition of which was an object for which the Dissenters frankly avowed they intended to struggle—namely, the Established Church. He wished to take issue on these two grounds. He denied that it was
 194
 *MR. BERESFORD HOPE : I cannot refrain, Sir, from promising the House that I shall not take so deep a plunge into the nature of things, or enter upon so wide a range of all philosophy as we have been lately led into, by the hon. Member for Devizes. If church rates are to be abolished posterity will say that they want no historian, but "such an honest chronicler as Griffith." My task is a more practical one, and I shall try to compress it into as brief a space as the importance of the subject will permit. For it is a really important subject. The question is not the same as that which was discussed last Wednesday. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Morpeth (Sir George Grey), then very truly pointed out that the discussion of Wednesday last was to try an individual issue—it was to try the limited issue contained in the Bill which my right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge had laid on the table of the House—the wider question of church rates themselves, from that of their absolute abolition to the dry maintenance of the present state of things, remains behind. If we were indeed to take the discussion which arose on the right hon. Gentleman's Bill as concluding the main question, we should have to abandon the case. But I, for one, say, that the cause of church rates is not yet hopeless. The discussions which have already taken place upon the subject have made one thing clear, that the cry for abolition of church rates proceeds from a divided party—that it is not a question of Dissenters against the Church, but that the opponents of church rates form a portion, and a small portion only, of the Dissenting body, together, as the right hon. Baronet the Member for Morpeth pointed out. with a portion of the members of the Church who have certain specific grievances which can easily be remedied by means short of the destruction of the system of church rates. But all the Dissenters are not pledged to the abolition of church rates. I appeal to the hon. Gentleman the Member for Cambridge-
 176 Liberator. Liberator Nonconformist Nonconformist? "Radical politicians, we know, greatly dislike spending any particle of their strength upon ecclesiastical questions. They will have to conquer that dislike; for ecclesiastical questions will furnish the chief occasions of popular conflict for years to come. But for the strange and anomalous position occupied just now by the State Church—but for the evident fact that that institution is out of keeping with all our other institutions—but
 177 "Of course we do not expect that our convictions on this matter can be safely thrust into a programme of policy. But, as we said before, a fundamental truth or two, stopping short of our ultimate aim, and yet broad enough to answer present need, will be found an indispensable feature of any manifesto which is designed to serve as a banner to the Radical party, and as a source of inspiration and a bond of union to its members. They will never gain cither unity, discipline, or courage, until they can dare to face the greatest anomaly of the age—the Established Church. It is the only remaining enterprise capable of inspiring enthusiasm." "In the second place, the charge of seeking to pull down the Church is in another sense a truth, and in that sense we neither disown the charge nor object to the mode of expressing it. If by the Church is meant the Church Establishment, the charge is true. We shrink not from it; we avow it; we glory in it; nor do we object to the terms: Pulling down is an apostolic phrase." "Proving their doctrines orthodox By apostolic blows and knocks." 178 "In all the large towns of the kingdom church rates have been discontinued, and neither the interests of the Church of England nor the interests of religion have suffered. Why are they still kept up in this parish? " 179 "That in his judgment, the society might consistently do so. Such a change of the law would extinguish the taxing power of the Establishment, and dry up one of its sources of revenue, while the ecclesiastical revenues applied to the purposes for which church rates are now levied, would still he national property, and be capable of appropriation to secular purposes at a future time." 180 Ministère des cultes 181 182 183
 MR. STEUART  said, that if the Amendment were brought forward on another opportunity, he should be happy to support it; but its adoption on the present occasion would be countenancing the bad practice of moving abstract Resolutions as Amendments on the second reading of Bills. He could not give his vote in favour of the Bill of the hon. Baronet which he believed would pass that House and be rejected in "another place" and then the time would have arrived for some compromise; for be believed the course taken to refuse all compromise on this subject had strengthened the hands of moderate men, who were open to any reasonable compromise. It was argued that, if voluntary contributions were substituted for church rates, only those churches which were not required would cease to be supported. But who were to decide in this case? Were they to be the inhabitants of the districts, or other persons not actuated by friendly views to the Church Establishment? He feared that if the present Bill were carried, many rural districts where the people were too poor to provide a church, would he deprived of the advantages of religious instruction. He was willing to exempt Dissenters from church, rates, because they had done good
 175
 MR. PACKE  said, he feared that if church rates were abolished, not a few of the fabrics would fall into decay: for he apprehended that the generosity which was represented to exist among the members of the Church was not quite so extensive as was supposed. At any rate he observed from returns during the last seven years, that the bankers and merchants of the City of London had only contributed £5,500 to the repairs of the churches of the metropolis, while the amount raised by rates was £80,000. It appeared to him that the Liberation Society had exercised a considerable influence over the Members of the House. He had carefully read the evidence taken before the Committee of 1851, and he did not think it bore out the asser-
 192
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, that in compliance with what seemed to be the general wish of the House, he would not persevere with his Resolution.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, the Bill was quite a one-sided measure, and complained that any discussion or amendment on it had last year been prevented by a technical difficulty. The most important stage of a Bill, the Committee, in which the details were considered, had, in fact, been practically, totally expunged in this measure, and amendments were excluded by its uncompromising title. It, therefore, came before the House in an exceptional form, that precluded all rational discussion of the subject. The whole force of the measure was compromised in a single clause of an intolerant character; and there would be no opportunity but this of joining issue on the principle, unless by moving an Amendment that would change the title of the Bill. It appeared to him extremely to limit, to nullify, be might almost say to stultify, the powers of that House. He knew of no other measure which proposed to take the House by
 171 172 ouvrier, soirée "He was addressing his countrymen through the press. They wished for an entire disseverance of the Church from the State. Their object was not to get rid of the church rate merely. They were going further than the church-rate question, which was only as a grain of sand to a mountain. Let it not be forgotten that a much wider and broader question remained behind, a question which had to do with the great principle on which Church affairs should be conducted in relation to the civil institutions of the land. Let those who opposed the Church Rate Bill take all the advantage they could from the avowal; but they did not and never did intend to abide by the Church Rate Bill as a final measure." 173
 MR. HUDSON  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. GREENWOOD  said, that no one was more strongly attached to the Church of England than himself, but there were times when he thought it was not only prudent and politic, but proper to waive privileges and not to insist upon rights, and such a time had, he believed, arrived with reference to church rates. They were well acquainted with the difficulties and dissensions which attended the collection of those
 193
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY , in replying, asked the noble Lord who had just addressed the House whether the abolition of the vestry cess in Ireland had had the effect of destroying the Church in that country? So far from that it had had the effect of maintaining it to the present day. The right hon. Member for Bute (Mr. Stuart Wortley) said it was not impossible that some clause might be introduced in Committee to make the abolition more acceptable to the Church. If he had any clause of that sort he should be disposed to give it due consideration.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he agreed so far with the hon. Member for Devizes (Mr. D. Griffith) as to say that it was a matter of regret that the Amendment proposed by the right hon. Member for Morpeth (Sir George Grey) on the Bill brought in 1856 by Sir William Clay was not accepted by the House. He thought that if there ever was a time when a com- promise might have been effected it was then. Unfortunately the opportunity was not taken; circumstances prevented the Government of the day from passing the Bill; when it was brought forward again the Nonconformists refused to support it; and now—he said it with regret—but he felt that the time for compromise had en-
 185 186 in corpore vili,
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, that although he was perfectly ready to agree to the personal exemption of Noncomformists from church rates, he could be no party to an arrangement by which
 174
 MR. DEEDES , in seconding the Amendment, said, he had often been called upon since he had been elected to a seat in that House to vote upon this measure, but he had never troubled the House with any expression of his opinion on the subject, and he now rose rather to enter a protest against the course which the House had taken on it than to enter into its intricacies. He had formerly entertained some hopes of a compromise, but despaired of any amicable Settlement of this question when he heard the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Hadfield) say, in reply to some reference to a compromise, "We have got a majority, and we do not mean to have any compromise, but to have the entire abolition." In speaking of a possible settlement, he did not wish to use the word compromise, because that implied a giving up a principle on one side or the other. He wanted no one to give up a principle. What he wished was such an adjustment of the question as would on the one hand relieve the Dissenters so far as it was just that they should be relieved; and on the other that the Churchmen should have the proper means of maintaining the Church. He believed that one great reason of the hostility to church rates had arisen from their misappropriation. Both Churchmen and Nonconformists had a good deal to complain of on this point. He should wish to Bee the rate limited to the purposes to which it might be justly applied, the maintenance of the fabric of the church and keeping up the churchyard. For these purposes he should like to see the machinery of a rate continued. His plan would bean exceedingly
 184
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he was inclined to concur in much that his right hon. and learned Friend had said; and certainly in nothing more than in the statement he had made of the urgent and over whelming necessity for some extensive alteration in the laws of bankruptcy and insolvency. He conceived, however, that it would be somewhat premature at that moment to say more than that, to this extent he quite agreed with his right hon. Friend; and he thought that with regard to the main principles of the Bill of the noble Lord the Member for London, to whom the House and the country were indebted for its introduction, there could be no doubt they were entitled to the favourable consideration of Parliament. Upon the first point to which his right hon. Friend had particularly alluded, namely, the great and useless expenses which were now incurred in bankruptcy, he would merely observe that while a serious evil was sought to be remedied by the Bill, he could not but hope that when the measure which was now before the House of Lords came down to this House and both Bills went before it, a great deal more would be effected. Much difference of opinion prevailed with regard to a number of points which were involved in that important question, the expenses incurred in bankruptcy. Whether they should diminish these expenses by doing away altogether with the percent-ages; whether they should confine themselves to the reduction of fees; or in what particular way they should diminish those expenses which his right hon. Friend bad certainly not exaggerated when he said that in many instances they were full 50
 201
 MR. MOFFATT  said, that the mercantile body must feel grateful to the noble Lord for the introduction of this measure. No doubt it was a comprehensive, and some might think it a cumbrous scheme; but it had to deal with a very extensive and defective system which had grown up in the lapse of time. That which was wanted was not a resuscitation of the old law but an entire and total renovation, so as to meet the exigencies of trade and provide a cheap and summary mode of punishing fraudulent debtors, and this Bill, though it had many good points, was susceptible of much amendment. It was proposed to assimilate bankruptcy and insolvency, and mix them up before a common tribunal. But to attempt to do so was to attempt to mix up two things of dissimilar nature, and if the plan were persevered in, he predicted that the present bankruptcy Bill would be as great a failure as the last. In the main it perpetuated the old administration. The mercantile community were unanimous in thinking that the Courts of Bankruptcy ought to be raised to the dignity and importance of the other courts of
 206
 MR. HEADLAM  was anxious to say a few words on this subject, as representing a large trading community in the north of England, where they were most anxious for an amendment of the present law. It appeared that they were all agreed upon the main principles of this Bill. The hon. and learned Attorney General said that the Bill did not go far enough in the way of diminishing the expense. He (Mr. Headlam) thought they had gone as far as possible; but if the Government could suggest any further diminution the promoters of this Bill would be glad to adopt it. He had reason to know that the Amendments which had been suggested at the meeting in the City yesterday would be adopted by the promoters of the measure, and every effort would be made to make the Bill as perfect as possible.
 LORD NAAS  said, this question had been fully discussed on the second reading, which was carried almost unanimously; and the present Motion was, therefore, an unusual attempt to defeat the measure. The principal objection taken by the hon. and gallant Mover of the Amendment was that the Bill did not carry out the recommendations of the Commissioners; but the
 211 212 213
 LORD NAAS  rose to reply to some of the objections that had been urged against the measure. It was said that he was giving a new power, but he only continued the existing law which empowered the Lord-Lieutenant to order the building of a lunatic asylum wherever he might think it desirable; but at the same time he gave power to the grand jury, as representing the rate payers, to appear before the Lord-Lieutenant in Council, and make any objection they might think proper. He would not go into a defence of the excellencies of the grand jury system, but he must say his experience was very different from the description that had been given of it by the hon. Member for Dovor, and at the last assizes, at which he was present, when he acted as foreman, there were ten Roman Catholics on the grand jury. The small proportion of Roman Catholics on some grand juries might be accounted for by the smallness of the number of Roman Catholic proprietors in those districts, so that it could not be charged as a fault of the system. Even if grand juries were to be abolished there was nothing to prevent the power proposed to be vested in them being placed elsewhere. He doubted whether the
 218
 MR. M'EVOY  said, that in Meath, in which he resided, there were many Roman Catholics on the grand juries; yet they had little or no influence. It was the Protestant Members who had for the most part the nomination of the appointments, He did not think grand juries were the impartial bodies they were represented, and was rather disposed to coincide with his hon. Friend the Member for Dovor (Mr. Orborne).
 MR. GILPIN  said, he should be most happy to do so, but he was not aware that the Bill would have been brought on for discussion that day, and he had not yet finished the reading of the Bill.
 MR. GILPIN  expressed his surprise that the hon. Gentleman, acquainted as he was with so many leading members of the Society of Friends, should be so ignorant of the principles which led them to object to the terms employed as to defending Her Majesty as he appeared to be. He ought to know as well as any person that the principles of that sect were opposed to what was usually called the principles of defence; and there were many other ways in which they conceived that they might defend her Majesty than by the actual taking up of arms. As had been stated, the object of the present measure was nothing more than to put them in the position they had occupied for a very long period of time. His right hon. Friend beside him was acting on behalf of the whole Society of Friends who preferred the form of declaration previously in use, and he certainly thought that after the character that had been given of them by the hon. Member for Norfolk, no one would object to replace them in the position they had been in for 130 years.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  thought it highly important that the ballot should be introduced in municipal elections. It had been in use in the metropolis twenty-five years under Hob house's Act, and it had worked extremely well.
 MR. RIDLEY  did not think the Bill provided a remedy for all the existing evils attending municipal elections; but it was good as far as it went, and he should support it.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  thought it would be more satisfactory if the lists were revised by revising barristers rather than by local authorities.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, that the 18th clause would abolish the system of voting papers which had hitherto been
 224
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, that the only object of the Bill was to put Quakers into the position in which they had been for the last 130 years. Every one who knew them testified to the loyalty and respectability of that excellent body of men, and he knew of no reason why they should be shut out from exercising the offices of magistrate or justice of the peace because they objected to affirm something contrary to their religious principles.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, that the House needed not to be assured that the Quakers were most loyal and devoted subjects of Her Majesty; and it must be understood that the Quakers, in desiring to stand in the same position which they occupied previous to the Act of last year, which was passed to admit the Jews, asked for nothing new. Ever since 1717 the Quakers had been authorized by statute to take the oaths in the way of affirmation, and in a form peculiar to themselves. That form was repealed  per incuriam
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  moved, that the House should go into Committee upon the Bill.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  thanked the House for the general expression of favour with which they had received his Bill. He was happy to hear from the Attorney General that he approved of many of the principles of the Bill, and he was happy to hear from his own Colleague (Mr. Crawford) and others that the commercial classes, as far as they were acquainted with its provisions, approved of the Bill. He had no objection to the proposition of the hon. and learned Attorney General that this Bill should not go into Committee till the House were in possession of, and had time to consider the provisions of the Bill that was coming down from the other House of Parliament. At the same time he hoped his hon. and learned Friend would not be led by any party affection to take part with that Bill against the present one, because he thought he could see that if loft to his own unbiassed judgment his hon. and learned Friend would prefer this Bill to the other. The hon. Member for Dublin (Mr. Vance) had urged va-
 208 209
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  moved that the Bill be now read a second time.
 MR. AYRTON  moved the recommitment of the Bill, in order that the provision by which the nomination of candidates was not to take place in open assembly, but through papers sent to the officers of the boroughs, might be reconsidered. It was only when more than the requisite number of councillors were proposed that an election was to take place. This appeared to him an unsatisfactory mode of conducting the elections, and it would be bettor to adopt that practice which was consistent with the usages of the people of this country—nomination in public meeting.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. LEFROY  thought the conduct of the noble Lord (Lord Naas) with respect to the pains he had taken in bringing in this Bill deserving of all praise. He, however, thought the noble Lord right in giving way to the reference to a Select Committee. He defended the composition and conduct of grand juries throughout Ireland generally, so far as his knowledge extended.
 MR. COWAN  thought the noble Lord was entitled to great credit for the immense labour and trouble he must have
 205
 MR. AKROYD  contended that the Bill had already been subjected to the test of Select Committees out of doors, for it had been examined by legal gentlemen and men of business, who had themselves suffered by the present law. It had been discussed in the Chambers of Commerce of all the great towns throughout the country, and they were all in favour of the Bill. One of the evils of the present law was that 90 per cent of all cases of insolvency were settled out of court, and not more than 10 per cent came before the proper tribunals, so that the law as it stood was practically inoperative. One of the advantages of the noble Lord's Bill was that it gave the creditors the power of self-management, and another was that it greatly reduced the expense — in this respect following the Scotch system, which in all matters of economy was greatly ahead of the English system. He looked also with great satisfaction on those provisions which allowed certain cases to be submitted to the County Courts, where they would be examined by tribunals in the locality, and by which the various classes of trade frauds would most certainly meet with their appropriate punishments. He regretted to say that a class of traders were making their appearance who could only be described as gamblers in trade, who were more like gamblers on the turf than men engaged in mercantile transactions, and to moot their case, he thought it was desirable the Bill should authorise an examination as to the past conduct of the bankrupt or insolvent, and then the law, while it gave protection to the prudent man who had been really unfortunate would stigmatize the trader who had conducted his affairs in a fraudulent manner, and had gambled with the money of other persons. He would give the noble Lord his cordial support, and he could assure him that the
 207
 MR. KNATCHBULL - HUGESSEN  asked the Government to express their opinion upon the question. It appeared to him that a system which worked well in the election of Poor Law Guardians, and of Members of Local Boards of Health should be carried out in municipal elections generally.
 COLONEL FRENCH  also pressed the noble Lord to yield to the suggestion for referring the Bill to a Select Committee. The question was one of great importance, and he hoped the House would not be put to the trouble of dividing.
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, that this measure departed in three essential particulars from the recommendations of the Commissioners who investigated its subject. The Commissioners had suggested, first, the establishment of a central board, to
 210
 MR. BENTINCK  was glad that his right hon. Friend had called the attention of the House to this subject. No one could doubt the loyalty of the Quakers, and he also agreed that it was the intention of the House that no men should take an oath with respect to which he had any religious scruples. But in his view the observations which had been made in that respect did not apply to the present case. The hon. Gentleman said that it was an accidental omission last year; but it seemed to him that the alteration was an intentional one to correct an obvious omission. Assuming that the Quakers were loyal persons, which no one could doubt, it was the duty of every loyal citizen in the realm to defend Her Majesty and the Throne, if circumstances should arise. He could not understand the right of any one to a seat
 220
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he had to state, on the part of the Government, that they did not object to the course proposed by the hon. Baronet. They wished it to be understood that they assented to the second reading of the Bill on the condition that the discussion on its principles should be taken on the Motion for going into Committee. If the English Reform Bill should be read a second time before Easter he hoped he should be able to introduce the Scotch measure previously to the same period; and he was enabled to state that it would deal with that matter of the registration of voters as well as with other subjects.
 MR. TURNER  also supported the Bill as it stood. He was quite sure that the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr.
 223
 MR. TURNER  moved the omission of Clause 6, which substituted a revision by a barrister for the present revision before the mayor and assessors. He understood that this would not be opposed.
 MR. BRADY  trusted that the noble Lord would accede to the suggestion of his right hon. Friend the Member for Ennis. A great necessity, no doubt, existed for an alteration in the law, but the present Bill was not framed in a manner to meet the reasonable requirements of the ratepayers. He thought it would be a great cruelty if the expense of 4,000 or 5,000 lunatics should be thrown upon the ratepayers wholly, whereas now they bad only to pay half. This Bill would impose a new rate to be levied on the occupiers of land in Ireland. The Bill ought to be sent to a Select Committee, and he hoped the Government would see the necessity of that step.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  then moved, that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, the Amendment of the hon. and gallant Member for Longford, if successful, would have the effect of defeating the Bill altogether. He thought it was the opinion of those on his (Mr. J. D. FitzGerald's) side of the House that such a result would be undesirable. He by no means approved of the scheme of the noble Lord; but he knew that the present state of the law was bad, and, therefore, he thought that they should
 214 Geo 215
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, that it was not his intention to move the instruction to the Committee of which he had given notice, not because he had changed his view on the subject, but because he found that it was unnecessary, and that it would be competent for him to press the view he took on the Committee if he happened to be a Member.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  wished to say a few words on this question, having devoted a good deal of attention to it, and having two years ago introduced a measure somewhat similar for Ireland, on which, however, he admitted the present Bill was a very great advance. With some Amendments, which could only he made in Committee, he thought this Bill would be a great improvement on the present state of the law. The Bill which he had passed for Ireland, like the present Bill, abolished the Insolvent Debtors' Court and fused insolvency and bankruptcy, and the result had been most remarkable in simplifying the state of the law, in consolidating the courts, and in reducing the expense. It was a remarkable fact, that whereas in 1818 the petitions for relief in insolvency in Ireland amounted to 3057, in 1858 they were only 450; while the business proper to the
 204
 MR. VANCE  said, that from personal knowledge, he was able to confirm what the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Baines) had stated respecting the opinions of the mercantile community both in England and Ireland, with regard to the present state of the bankruptcy and insolvency laws He believed it was perfectly true that the
 202 203 s. s.
 MR. HENLEY  coincided in the course which had just been recommended. It was evident that so far as the Quakers were concerned they did not entertain any conscientious objection to making the affirmation further than the conscientious objection they entertained against the use of force.
 MR. BAINES  said, that as the representative of a very large mercantile community, he wished to express shortly what he understood were their feelings and views with regard to this subject, and not only theirs, but those of the commercial communities in the north of England, as far as they could be ascertained. Their opinion was, that the Bill which now stood for second reading was likely to be an extremely valuable measure, as supplying a defect in the law under which the mercantile classes in the north of England, particularly, had for a long period been suffering. He could truly say that be had never visited his constituents since he had bad the honour of representing them without hearing from quarters which were entitled to the greatest possible respect and confidence, the loudest complaints with regard to the existing Bankruptcy and Insolvency Laws. He did not think there was a point upon which they were more perfectly unanimous than that; and he believed that the defects pointed out in the petition which he had presented to-day, were exactly those which it was the object of the Bill to remedy, and which, if the Bill went into Committee, it might be made effectual to remedy. When he stated that in the district which he had the honour to represent, it had been proved by a gentleman of the highest character—one of the Bankruptcy
 199 200
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  complimented the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland upon his exertions to amend the law since he became Secretary for Ireland; but as it seemed to be the wish of the Irish Members to appoint a Select Committee, he thought the Government ought to yield. He objected entirely to the authority proposed to be vested in a grand jury, one of the worst bodies that such a power could be exercised by—a fugitive body packed by a fugitive person, that splendid annual the sheriff of the county. It was wondered how the Irish people could suffer such a system; but "sufferance was the badge of all their tribe." He was entirely opposed to governors of asylums being appointed by grand juries. There were two Motions on the paper for altogether altering or abolishing Irish grand juries, which there would be some good hope of accomplishing if the Irish Members could be for once unanimous —a contingency, indeed, which seemed to be extremely problematical: — and then what would become of the Bill. Why
 217
 MR. SPOONER  withdrew his Motion.
 MR. SPOONER  said, that after that statement he should move that the Chairman leave the chair and report progress, as it was evident that such a course was one which was necessary in order to allow those most interested in the matter to inform themselves upon it.
 MR. SPOONER  could assure his hon. Friend that he was quite willing to make every concession to religious scruples, but the hon. Gentleman had given no reason why the words were inserted last year. The words were binding on the person who took the oath or made the affirmation to defend the Queen. Did the hon. Member mean that Quakers were the only men who would not undertake to defend the Queen? That portion of the Bill seemed to him to
 221
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he did not intend to enter into the general question, but he wished to state to the House that he was present at a large meeting of all the great trades of the country, held yesterday in the City of London, and the conclusions at which that meeting arrived he believed were entitled to great weight with the House. A committee of these bodies had been appointed to consider the two Bills now before the country —that of the Lord Chancellor, and that of the noble Lord now before the House. That Committee, representing the great mercantile interests of the country, considered both Bills, and the conclusion at which they arrived was that the Bill of the Lord Chancellor ought to be opposed, and that the Bill of his noble Colleague, with a few Amendments, ought to receive the support of the country. The meeting held yesterday concurred in the opinion of the Committee, and he thought that conclusion was entitled to great weight with the House.
 Mr. DE VERE  hoped the Committee would commence their proceedings immediately.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, that the hon. Gentleman who bad conduct of this Bill proposed to rectify the Act passed last year. It was said that the Act of last year unintentionally made an
 219
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, it was perfectly plain that the objection the Society of Friends entertained was merely the ordinary conscientious objection by which the Quakers were distinguished; that they were loyal people could not be doubted, and there were many modes of defence in which they could see they were better able to defend the Queen than by force. He therefore hoped his hon. Friend would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  begged to ask the hon. Member for Northampton whether he could give an explanation of the particular grievance which the Quakers were to be relieved from?
 Mr. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  moved
 222
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  thought the greatest publicity should be given in conducting municipal elections. Complaints were numerous that after an elector had voted other candidates appeared, and the remedy proposed was, that all candidates should be declared and their names published one whole day before the polling commenced. He was as much in favour of maintaining the principle of open voting as any man, and would much regret seeing it laid by. He thought the Bill provided a beneficial scheme.
 MR. GREGORY  said, if the hon. Gentleman had any hope that there would be an unanimity of opinion amongst Irish Members on the subject of grand juries or any other subject, he might be fitly classed amongst that unhappy portion of the community for whom this Bill proposed to legislate. But was the present most discreditable state of things to be allowed to continue until the Irish Members came to a unanimous opinion on the subject of grand juries? The question was a wide one, and he was disposed to go with his right hon. and learned Friend, and send the Bill to a Committee up stairs. There were questions connected with religion which could be properly considered in Committee, and which, if discussed in that House, might perhaps excite the opposition of some Gentlemen whoso zeal outran their discretion. He, however, could not agree with the him. Member (Mr. B. Osborne) as to his remarks on grand juries.
 MR. CROSSLEY  agreed with the hon. Member fur Huddersfield, and others, that this was a question of the deepest interest to the whole community. At present there was a dread of going into the Bankruptcy Court, and if a creditor appeared and threatened to take the estate there he was often paid more than the estate would justify to get him out of the way. He would support the second reading of this Bill, as he believed that it was better than the measure introduced in "another place."
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  thought the system of voting by ballot adopted under the Metropolitan Local Management Act might be applied with great advantage to the case of municipal elections.
 MR. CROSS  replied, that the class of persons entitled to vote at municipal elections were, generally speaking, much below the Parliamentary electors in point of education, and it was found that, under the system of voting papers, electors who were unable to write were often fraudulently induced to vote for the wrong candidates. This practice had been going on for a long time, and, in consequence of the re-presentations made to him on the subject, he proposed by this clause that voting papers should no longer be used. The only advantage of these papers, which were delivered by the electors themselves, was that electors wrote down the names of the candidates for whom they voted, instead of repeating them to the poll clerks.
 MR. CROSS  observed, that there would at present be considerable difficulty in transferring this duty to the revising barristers, and he was therefore willing to assent to the Motion.
 MR. CROSS  explained the present position of the law and the object which the Bill had in view. As the law at present stood, no notice was given as to who were the candidates for the office of councillor, and the burgesses were therefore unable to know for whom to give their votes. Any man, whatever his character might be, could get a number of his friends together and obtain his election by surprise. Moreover, the corporation was obliged to keep open the poll all day, whether there was any opposition or not, and this put the corporation to great trouble and expense. In a large corporation like Manchester it would be necessary, if the plan of the hon. Gentleman were agreed to, to have as many as sixteen polling-places, with their attendant confusion and excitement. He should oppose the Motion.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said he had waited for some time in the hope that Government would do something on this subject, but up to the present time there had been no intimation on the part of Government of what they intended to propose. If the Bill were now read a second time, however, he would not press going into Committee till the House saw what the measure of the Government would propose in this matter. He reserved to himself the right to deal with the question hereafter according to the circumstances which might arise; and with that understanding he had, in conclusion, to move the second reading of the Bill.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said, the Bill affected the most helpless class in Ireland, and the change which it proposed in the existing law was one of considerable doubt. Hitherto the Lord Lieutenant had been responsible for a duty which the Bill sought to transfer to the grand juries, who were irresponsible bodies, and who did not represent the ratepayers generally. He hoped the Amendment would be agreed to.
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, he would beg to ask the indulgence of the House while he referred to a report in one
 244 The Times; Loud cries of
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  thought that, as this was a matter personally affecting himself, it was not necessary that he should conclude with a Motion.
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  then said, he would conclude with the Motion that the House do adjourn. He was about to add, when called to order, that the remainder of the speech attributed to him was delivered by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for North Wiltshire (Mr. Sotheron Estcourt) who had already corrected the error so far as he himself was concerned. He moved that the House do now adjourn.
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, he must apologize to the House for having acted irregularly. However, his object had been obtained, and he now bogged to withdraw his Motion.
 MR. LABOUOHERE  said, it was, no doubt, in the recollection of the House that a short time ago Her Majesty's Government thought it desirable to advise that a Lord High Commissioner Extraordinary should be sent to the Ionian Islands to consider the state of those possessions, and that his right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone) was intrusted with that Commission. Supposing, as he presumed was the case, that a Report had been received by the Government from his right him. Friend, as Lord High Commissioner Extraordinary, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Colonies whether it is the intention of Government to present the Report of Mr. Gladstone on the state of the Ionian Islands to Parliament. He should also like to ask the right hon. Gentleman if it be true, as lifts been stated in the newspapers, that Sir Henry Storks has prorogued the Assembly of the Ionian Islands for six months.
 SIR EDWARD BULWER LYTTON : Sir, in the publication of the Report—or I should rather say Reports, for there are more than one—of the right hon. Member for the University of Oxford there are, perhaps, no persons so interested as Her Majesty's Government, except, indeed, the very distinguished Gentleman by whom those Reports were furnished. But it is the opinion of Her Majesty's Government —in which the right hon. Member for the University fully concurs — that, whatever might be our inclination and our joint interest, it would be attended with very great injury and mischief to the public service, and would greatly embarrass Sir Henry Storks, if these Reports or any papers tending to provoke or invite discussion in Parliament at this moment were to be laid on the table. I, therefore, hope that the right hon. Gentleman and the House generally will adopt the same course of patriotic forbearance which was taken by a distinguished statesman in "another place." With regard to the question whether Sir Henry Storks has prorogued the Assembly of the Ionian States, I have to say that I have heard of the prorogation by telegram, but I am not aware whether despatches explaining the reasons for that step have yet reached the office.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, in reply, that the visitation of yellow fever at Trinidad was reported to the Adjutant General in November, 1858. There were then twenty-eight casualties, of which three were officers, but immediately on the outbreak of the fever the troops were removed from the barracks and encamped in a healthy situation. There was no objection to lay the Report upon the table. In reply to the second part of the question, he begged
 247
 SIR EDWARD BULWER LYTTON  replied, that the state of the Hospital and Asylum had occupied the very serious consideration of the Government. They had not appointed, nor did they intend to appoint, a Commission to inquire into the subject; but they had directed the Governor to make stringent inquiries on his own responsibility, and to give every facility to parties who desired to make any statements with respect to it.
 LORD STANLEY  said, the Report had just been presented, but the evidence was not quite ready; and it was thought best that the Report and the evidence should be laid upon the table together.
 LORD STANLEY  replied, that he had received no official Report on the subject; but he believed Commissioner Yeh was still detained at Calcutta. He apprehended, however, when the ratifications of the Treaty with China were exchanged that Commissioner Yeh would return to his own country.
 MR. RIDLEY  said, he wished to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer when he will lay upon the table of the House the clauses which he proposes to insert in the Representation of the people Bill respect-
 250
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that as the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer appeared to have a clear opinion as to the course which ought to be adopted with regard to the British Museum, it was desirable that when this Committee commenced its investigation it should be informed of the conclusion at which the Government had arrived. He understood that conclusion to be that it would be expedient to divide the collections of the British Museum, and no longer to act upon the principle of combining the different collections—the library, the collections of ancient art and the natural history collections—under one roof. If the Government having arrived at that conclusion should not have found leisure to mature means for carrying their opinion into effect, such a conclusion ought to operate on the inquries about to be commenced. There was another point to which he wished to advert. He did not think that if the Committee were appointed according to the terms which the hon. Mover had pro-
 269
 MR. COWPER  remarked that, he thought that Amendment confined the inquiry within too narrow limits, as there were subjects beyond the accommodation required demanding inquiry. He would
 271
 COLONEL NORTH  seconded the Motion. He was sure that if the right hon. and gallant Gentleman the Minister for War found it consistent with his official position he would have the greatest pleasure in acceding to the Motion, for no man could have a better knowledge of the merits of these officers than he. He thought no class in the army better deserved the consideration of the Secretary at War. The Warrant of 1854 was to the effect that the rate of half-pay upon which quartermasters should retire should be in accordance with the services they had rendered to the public. It was general in its application—there was no line drawn. A clause in a subsequent Warrant, however, limited its application. Now, out of the 43 quartermasters mentioned there were 35 between the ages of 65 and 84. The aggregate services of three of those amounted to 124 years, and they had been excluded by eleven days only from participating in the benefits given by the warrant of 1854. Considering the valuable services these men had rendered it was to be regretted they should have been excluded by a subsequent Warrant from participating in the advantages of the Warrant of 1854.
 GENERAL CODRINGTON  said, he also should support the Motion. The officers in question had all risen from the ranks through a series of onerous and responsible positions; many of them counted twenty and thirty years' foreign service, and a great proportion of them war service. He hoped, therefore, that the Secretary for War would promise, if it were out of his power this year, to grant an extension of the Warrant next year.
 GENERAL SIR W. F. WILLIAMS  said, in the course of his experience he had known many of these non-commissioned officers who had arrived at the rank of quartermaster, and most of them had been engaged in war. At a dinner he attended at Ceylon special mention was made of Quartermaster Dunn, who, being present at the time, was referred to by his commanding officer in these
 274
 GENERAL PEEL  said, if he were to follow the bent of his own inclination on the subject he should undoubtedly accede to the Motion of the hon. Baronet, and nothing could be more painful to him than to be obliged to oppose the wishes of those who had addressed the House, and still more of this very deserving body of officers. But it was his duty, occupying the responsible position of Minister for War, to point out the results that would follow from granting this Motion. All Warrants were prospective, and the present was perhaps the only instance of one being retrospective, but a special reason existed for such being the case. An application embodying the terms of the Warrant was made by quartermasters in the Crimea; it was forwarded by Lord Raglan, with a strong recommendation in its favour, and the Warrant was accordingly issued; but as it only came into operation a year after many quartermasters had retired — many of them from ill-health—it was thought advisable to make its operation commence from the beginning of the Crimean war. It was perfectly true that if the Motion were complied with it would involve an expenditure of £2,000 per annum only, and if that expense were the only obstacle it should not remain one. But it would not be a single instance. If Warrants in favour of quartermasters were made retrospective why should not those relating to every other branch of the service be made retrospective also? Increased retiring allowances had been granted in favour of paymasters, medical officers, and others whose predecessors had performed services in comparison to theirs equally entitled to retrospective consideration to those of quartermasters. The medical officers formed a very large body, and in their case it would be throwing a most serious extra expense on the public. The object of all retiring allowances was to benefit the public by inducing men who had served their time to retire and by encouraging a better class of men, if possible, to come into the service. As far as the
 275
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he would take that opportunity of thanking the hon. Baronet for his courtesy in postponing his Motion the other evening, in order to give him an opportunity of being present; as, from the position in which he stood to the army, he should have been very sorry to be absent when this discussion took place. The hon. Baronet, when the Estimate was before them expressed alarm lest his Motion should be put a stop to on the ground of prerogative. The House must see that if this Committee were granted it would be, not a Committee to inquire into the privileges of the Guards, but into the prerogative of the Crown, from whence, as the fountain of honour, all these appointments proceeded. He thought that the hon. Baronet would, at all events, be obliged to alter the Motion, so that it might be fur an Address to the Crown instead of for & Committee of the house. Her Majesty
 280 "four Committee were informed that officers of the Foot Guards had some advantages over the infantry of the Line, and that this inequality occasioned dissatisfaction in the army, while it was also attended with increased expense. The Foot Guards are a force constantly ready for any emergency, and have always, when occasion required, been the first to be sent at short notice on foreign service. They have always been peculiarly regarded as the force whose duty it is to attend the Sovereign. They have exclusive privileges, most of which are of ancient date; but it has been stated in evidence before us that exchanges between the Guards and the Line are not unfrequent,
 281 s. d. s. d. s. d. d. 282 283
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that as an officer who had served the whole of his time in the Line, he hesitated not to declare that there had never been the slightest jealousy or ill-feeling between the Guards and the Line. As regarded the letters that were written on the subject, it was a universal opinion in the army that they were not written by soldiers, but by mischievous persons who wished to create a bad feeling between the Guards and the Line. Why should there be any ill-feeling? The Returns which he then held in his hand showed that in the regiment of Coldstream Guards, out of twenty captains, not less than sixteen began their service in the Line, and were then transferred to the Guards; that in the Grenadier Guards thirty-nine were in similar circumstances; and in the Scots Fusilier Guards the same number. There was no reason at all why officers of the Line should not at their pleasure and with the sanction of the commanders of their regiments, be transferred to the Guards. With regard to first appointments, there were very few fathers who, unless they resided in London, and had an opportunity of looking after their sons, would wish to place them in the outset of life in a position which was exposed to all the dangers and temptations of the metropolis. In the next place, officers in the Guards must either be members of the aristocracy,
 286 s. d. s. d., s. d., s. d., 287 quâ
 GENERAL CODRINGTON  said, that he was afraid the hon. Baronet would not consider his opinion an unprejudiced one, as he had spent a great part of his life in the Guards; but he could assure him that the most important part of it—that spent in active service—was in the Line. He must say that he never found any of that jealousy to which the hon. Baronet had referred, nor was it to be expected he should—for the Guards took their turn of duty in the trenches at Sebastopol quite as readily as the troops of the Line. The hon. Baronet had talked of the Report of the Commission of 1858, as if it had mentioned in a prominent way the privileges of the Guards; but, on reference to the document, he found that was not the case. The only expression in that report which at all warranted the use of those words had reference to the rank of the Guards. The point which the hon. Baronet really had in view, if he might take the various letters published with his name attached, was, whether there were to be any Guards at all—and certainly, if they were to bring the regiments successively to London, and make the Guards perform the duty now done by the Line, of course there would be no Guards at all. But he certainly felt that, if the regiments of the
 289 290
 GENERAL SIR W. F. WILLIAMS  said, that as an officer of the Line and an officer of the Guards had been listened to, perhaps they would listen to an officer of the Artillery. The hon. Baronet had made a sidelong hit at the very existence of Guards on a former occasion. He had said, "If there are to be Guards at all, why not select from the other regiments as well?" He should be very sorry indeed to see the Guards given up as a separate corps, or that they should be selected from the other regiments. He was sure that such a plan would cause great heartburning and raise feelings that were not consonant to the feelings of a British officer. As to jealousy felt by other branches of the service against the Guards, in his branch there wore 20,000 men in its ranks; be himself had served in all parts of the world, and had in the course of his career been acquainted with many regiments of the Line, but he had never heard any expressions of jealousy on the part of the Line or the Artillery, or expressions in any way deroga-
 291
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he was far from disagreeing in any respect with the remarks of the hon. Gentleman who proposed to bring in this Bill. The time had arrived when it became the imperative duty of the Government to consider this question, and he thought the Court ought to be open to all practitioners. He was surprised to hear it hinted that it was not the intention of the Government to take any step in the matter, because he knew it was their intention to bring in a Bill tending to accomplish all the objects mentioned by the hon. Gentleman, and to make other arrangements to which this Bill did not refer. If the hon. Gentleman still desired to bring in his Bill, there would be no objection to his doing so; but he thought it would be better to leave the matter in the hands of the Government, as certain provisions which were indispensably necessary could be better originated by the Crown than by any independent Member.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that until the Bill was printed it would be impossible for the Government to know what it proposed to do. The hon. Member had not explained his measure. The law respecting lands in mortmain and for charitable uses was very important, and the Bill would require great consideration. It was not the desire of the Government, however, to throw any impediment in the way of the Bill being laid upon the table.
 MR. NICOL  seconded the Motion.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTH COTE  said, that the hon. Gentleman professed to ground his arguments upon the assumption, that the reduction in the duty could not materially affect the revenue. This, however, was an assertion easy enough to make, but not so easy to prove. The revenue from this source had greatly increased during the last few years, and it was still rapidly augmenting. It had advanced already from £954,000 to £1,209,000. The hon. Gentleman would find that although the insurance on agricultural property had increased since it was exempted from the duty, the amount of property subject to the tax which was insured had increased at the same time in a greater ratio. The experiment therefore advised by the hon. Gentleman would be exceedingly dangerous to an important part of the revenue. If the Government could afford to dispense with this tax they would very gladly do so; but under the circumstances he must, with great reluctance, oppose the introduction of a Bill which would only raise expectations which it would not be possible to gratify.
 MR. CORRY  said, that his right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Admiralty was the last person who ought to be accused of neglecting the navy. The hon. and gallant Officer stated that nothing had been done till lately for the purpose of increasing the naval force of the country. The present Board only came into office on the 9th of last March, and in the month of May the whole of the artificers in the dockyards were put on task and job work, and were continued so during the whole summer. Afterwards his right hon. Friend, when the state of the French navy was
 301
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, he conceived that when the First Lord of the Admiralty stated that the production of these papers would be inconvenient to the public service the [louse ought to be satisfied with that assurance, but he must add that he thought it rather out of the usual course that the First Lord of the Admiralty should have rend extracts from such papers. He would not now enter upon the question whether or not, when the late Board of Admiralty left office, the navy of the country was in an unsatisfactory condition. At another time that question would be entered into by one more competent than himself to do justice to the late Board, and he was confident that it would be shown that when the late Board left office in the beginning of 1858 the navy of this country was, as regarded France or any other Power, in such a condition as the House and the country ought to be satisfied with. There was only one remark in the right hon. Gentleman's (Mr. Corry's) speech that he felt bound to remonstrate with, and that was with reference to the suggestions that had been made by Sir Baldwin Walker to the Board of Admiralty. The gallant Admiral had referred to some of these letters, and he mentioned that the first suggestion was made in March. After that date the right hon. Gentleman (Sir John Pakington) made his financial statement, in which he recommended that the Naval Estimates should he reduced from those prepared by the late Board. It was therefore scarcely to have been expected
 302
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he trusted, as the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Admiralty was of opinion that the production of these papers would be detrimental to the public service, his hon. and gallant Friend (Sir Charles Napier) would not press for a division.
 LORD ELCHO  said, the hon. Gentleman had, in his eloquent speech, touched upon various topics connected with the present condition of the Museum and he (Lord Elcho) rose with the hope of pointing out a course which might reconcile the duties of Trustees with the Motion of the hon. Gentleman. He (Lord Elcho) proposed to confine his observations to one of those topics only—namely, the question of the arrangement of the collections in the British Museum, and the utter want of space which existed for the collections which at present existed. The hon. Gentleman had said he thought it desirable that others than Dukes, and Lords, and Members of Parliament should be Trustees of the Museum, and he had urged the necessity of placing among that body scientific men. But at this moment the Trustees included four gentlemen highly distinguished for their scientific attainments—namely, Sir Roderick Murchison, who was second to none in scientific reputation;—there was a distinguished Member of that House, Sir Philip Egerton, whose name was unrivalled in that department of science in which he had attained an European reputation—there was the President of the Royal Society (Sir B. Brodie)—and there was the President of the College of Physicians (Dr. Mayo). Therefore he must repeat that science was fully and fairly represented among the Trustees. Then there was the subject of lectures; as to which he thought that a Committee was hardly necessary, because Professor Owen had been appointed to the head of the scientific department of the British Museum on the express condition that he was to deliver lectures, if required to do so. That therefore was a matter with which the Trustees were quite competent to deal. He would further remark
 260 261 "The department of natural history ought to be transfered somewhere else. I wish to impress upon the Committee the absolute necessity of this separation. No good can ever be done without it." "That the time would come—indeed he might say had already come—when they must consider the question of how the public collections of this country could be most effectually arranged. That was a question which could no longer be avoided. He was not at all prepared to say that the consideration of the question should be postponed. Committee and Commission had fulfilled their tasks. All the information required upon the subject was before the House, and what was required was a determination to avail themselves of it, in order to act upon it. 262 263 264
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he was not at all disposed to complain of the decision at which the right hon. Gentleman had arrived. The announcement made by the Government last year, that they would hear no more of Committees or Commissions but decide the question themselves, was, perhaps, somewhat hasty. He could not concur in the remark made by the hon. Mover of this Motion, that the Trustees of the British Museum must be the persons of all others least qualified to give an opinion on this subject. On the contrary, if they had attended to their duties at all, they ought to be well able to express such an opinion. The position of the British Museum appeared to be this:—In January, 1858, the Standing Committee came to a Resolution that there was a great deficiency of space, and that in considering the means of providing adequate space they ought to confine themselves to the actual and immediate requirements of the Museum. The majority of the Trustees thought it would be the best way of deciding the question to adopt the Report of that Committee; he himself thought that it ought to be referred to the Government as it involved very large considerations. The institution consisted of three great divisions. First, there was the library,
 267 268
 LORD LOVAINE  said, that it must be recollected at the time his right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Admiralty brought this subject before the House he was introducing to their notice a claim on the expenditure of the public funds to a very large amount, which obliged him to refer to the Report of Sir Baldwin Walker. He hoped, therefore, the House would consider the extraordinary circumstances under which those extracts were road, and not insist on the whole of the letters being laid upon the table. In March last the Government found a very large increased estimate for labour in the dockyards, and this the right hon. Gentleman was naturally loth to accept without a further knowledge of the subject; but at the same time when in May the Government received information from Sir Baldwin Walker of the necessity of the case, the whole of the artificers in the dockyards were put on task work, and the loss of time was fully compensated by the extra exertions which followed. He trusted from what had already been stated that the House would refuse to sanction the Motion of the gallant Admiral.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would suggest that the terms of the Motion should be for a "Select Committee to inquire into the accommodation furnished in the British Museum, and whether any change of site was desirable."
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Treasury whether with reference to the deeds allowed by the Land Titles (Scotland) Act of last year to be indorsed in a short form on other deeds, arrangements are being made which would relieve parties from the inconvenience and risk of sending their titles to London for the purpose of having the stamp applicable to the indorsed deed impressed thereon, either by providing in Scotland the means of there impressing such stamp, or by permitting the use of adhesive stamps, or otherwise; and when such arrangements will come into operation?
 MR. STEUART  said, he would also beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer if he can give any idea of the numbers who would be added to the franchise if the possession of £60 in the Savings' Bank were to be a qualification, and similarly if the sum fixed were £40.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I have directed estimates to be framed, based on returns, of the numbers who will be added to the constituency if the possession of £60, of £40, and of £30 respectively is made a qualification for the elective franchise, and these estimates will be laid on the table as soon as possible.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, when the Reform Bill is in Committee, I have no doubt that there is scarcely a Member of this House who will not propose an Amendment. I have no doubt, also, that many of the Amendments then proposed will be favourably received by the House; and I hope that the hon. Gentleman will not grudge the same privilege to Her Majesty's Government.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he still retained the opinion which he had expressed last year—that the consideration of this question by the House ought not to be much longer delayed. He thought that the House and the Government were in possession of all the information requisite to guide them in that reorganization of this institution which was not only necessary, but inevitable. They could not retain its character as a first-rate institution unless they took some means of reorganizing its different branches. He repeated that the labours of Committees and Commissions, and the information thence resulting, appeared to him quite sufficient to guide the Government in the task of reorganization; and with those views, which he still retained, he had certainly expressed the opinion that further inquiry was unnecessary, assuming that it would be the duty of Government to recommend to Parliament some means by which the evils complained of might be remedied. But unfortunately it had not been in the power of Government to make such a proposition. The pressure of business had prevented their dealing with the subject, which they had certainly intended to do; and he had now to consider whether, being unable to realize the expectations which he had held out to the House, he ought to oppose the inquiry which the hon. Gentleman proposed, and which was generally approved. The object of that inquiry was not merely to obtain information. A Committee was often very useful in reconciling conflicting opinions, and in preparing the public mind for a solution of questions of this nature. A Committee in this case could do no harm, and might do good. If he found the Committee interfering with the Government he should certainly say, "We have information enough
 266
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I find that what I propose to do can be effected by a single clause, and I hope to lay that clause upon the table this evening. My object will be to carry into effect the Notice of Motion which was given by my hon. Friend the Member for East Somersetshire (Mr. Miles)—namely, to respect the rights of all existing freeholders who at present possess a, qualification in a borough. We propose to add to that that a freeholder in a borough shall have the option of voting either for the county or the borough.
 MR. COWAN  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury if it be the case, since the issuing of the Penny Draft and Receipt Stamps in 1853, that those Stamps have been supplied in England and Ireland to the public at a deduction from the price of seven and a half per cent, which has been entirely withheld from the people of Scotland, if he can explain the grounds of this difference, and if it is intended that it shall cease, and when?
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that if there was one Member of the House who might be supposed anxious for the production of the letters it was himself; but he would never allow personal considerations to interfere with public duties. The right hon. Baronet had said it would be inconvenient to lay the letters on the table, and he, (Sir Charles Wood) should, therefore, vote against the Motion. At the same time he quite agreed with the hon. Member for Sunderland, that the British navy had never been incompetent to the task of defending our shores, and he hoped on a fitting occasion to show that during his administration at least it had been perfectly efficient for any purpose for which it could be required.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he had to move for leave to introduce a Bill to enable ser-
 294
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he had no doubt that if the duty were reduced the revenue would not suffer. When the duty on coffee was 3 s. d.  298
 MR. HADFIELD , in moving an Address to the Crown for a Commission to Inquire into the Civil Laws of Jersey, said that a Commission had been appointed in 1846 to inquire into the criminal laws of the island, and an intimation had been given that a Commission would also be appointed to inquire into the civil laws, but the recommendations of that Commission had never been carried out, nor had the second Commission been appointed. Having received various petitions on the subject, he had put himself into communication with the Home Office, and he was happy to state that the Government had agreed to grant this Commission.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he was glad to hear that Government intended to legislate on this subject, but at the same time he was of opinion that advantages would be derived from having the Bill printed and circulated among hon. Members.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he had then to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the law relating to the conveyance of lands
 295
 MR. HUDSON  said, he had listened with great attention to what had fallen from the gallant Admiral, and he was very much surprised at the manner in which he had described the condition of the British navy. All he could say was, that when the time of trial came the British navy would do all that was required of it. Whatever its condition it would be abundantly answerable to any demands made upon it. He did not care how inefficient the navy was— but he was surprised the gallant Admiral should attempt to lower the British power in any part of the world he certainly hoped the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Admiralty would continue the mode he bad taken to increase the efficiency of the British navy.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN , in moving for leave to introduce a Bill to reduce the duty upon Fire Insurances, said, that an increasing agitation was going on out of doors for the total abolition of the tax on fire insurances. An association had been formed to effect that object, which was supported by the noble Lord the Secretary of State for India, and many other hon. Members of that House, but the more moderate proposal contained in this Bill, if conceded by the Government and the House, would, he thought, be sufficient to satisfy the public mind on this subject. His measure was not of a sweeping character, and would not interfere to any appreciable extent with the existing revenue. He sought to reduce the duty of 3 s. s. s. 296 s. s. 297 s. s.
 MR. WYLD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies if Her Majesty's Government have appointed, or intend to appoint, a Commission to inquire into the present state of the Public Hospital and Lunatic Asylum of Kingston, Jamaica?
 MR. BRADY  said, he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the laws which regulated the qualification and registration of Parliamentary voters in Ireland, 13 &c 14  Vict., 293
 MR. SPEAKER : What took place was this: the gallant Admiral said a few words on proposing his Motion, and the First Lord of the Admiralty immediately rose before the Question was put. Therefore since the putting of the Question, I think
 304
 MR. SPEAKER : Unless the hon. Gentleman proposes to conclude with some Motion referring to the matter which he has introduced to the House, he does not amend the irregularity of his course of proceeding by moving the adjournment of the House. Unless the hon. Gentleman desires to propose a substantive Motion referring to the matter which he has mentioned, the course he is now pursuing is irregular.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he must repeat that the hon. Gentleman was pursuing an irregular course, unless he intended to conclude with a Motion.
 MR. SPEAKER : Unless the right hon. Gentleman is going to conclude with some Motion, the course he is now pursuing is not regular.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he wished to draw the hon. Member's attention to the fact that as the Motion now stood there were
 273
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY , who was imperfectly heard, said he rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the nature and extent of certain privileges enjoyed by Her Majesty's Household Infantry, and mentioned in the Report of a Commission appointed on the 12th day of April, 1858, as "the Privileges of the Guards;" also, to inquire whether such privileges have a tendency to produce dissatisfaction or diminish the efficiency of the army. In bringing forward this Motion he thought it unnecessary to dwell at all on the reputation gained by the Guards, as that was a matter well established and generally known; and if it were urged that vested interests were involved in the question he had to submit to the House, he was of opinion that it would he proper in some way to save existing vested interests. He should make no statement not borne out either by the celebrated Memorial of the Guards or the Report of the Commission made last year. The memorial was signed by live great and illustrious names, but he thought at the time it should have been visited with severe censure, as a manifesto
 277 278 s. d.; 279
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, that he must reiterate his opinion that the Guards possessed considerable privileges and the two principal he might name as exemption from colonial duty, and superior pay. It had been said that the expenses of the Guards were not materially greater than those of regiments of the Line; but he had heard, on good authority, that two regiments of the Guards had been offered to-the Indian Government, who declined the offer on the ground of the cost which its acceptance would involve; and also that if the whole of the service were paid on the standard of the Guards, the increased expense would be not less than £500,000.
 MR. DUFF  said, he would recommend the addition of the words—"the establishment of lectures in connection with the Museum and the pay of the officials."
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  observed that the proposition of the noble Lord opposite (Lord Elcho) would have the effect of shelving the Committee altogether; for if they were not to inquire until some indefinite time when the Trustees had inquired and reported, they were not likely to inquire at all. There was, he thought, another grave objection to the proposition of the noble Lord, which was, that the Trustees would guide the Committee instead of the Committee the Trustees. In his opinion, as it would be impossible much longer to avoid a large expenditure in enlarging the Museum, a Committee should be appointed to ascertain in what manner the money could be most beneficially and economically expended. It was not, he thought, true that the subject was already exhausted, and he fancied that when the Committee entered upon their labours they would find the question to be fresher than was generally supposed. The previous Committees and Commissions had entirely evaded the question of arrangement and subdivision. In his opinion the labours of
 265
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India whether Commissioner Yeh is still under restraint at Calcutta, and what are the intions of the Government with respect to him.
 MR. SLANEY  said, he hoped that in any re-organization of the British Museum means would be taken to provide lectures, especially upon natural history, at a time when they could be attended by the humbler classes. He had derived great entertainment and instruction from the lectures of Professor Owen, but they were given, he was sorry to say, at an hour when the working classes could not attend. Many of that class took great delight in investigating natural history, and some of our best writers on that subject had sprung from that class. One of the best books on fishes and birds was written by one whom he had great pleasure to call his friend, the late Mr. Yarrell, and who when living was a humble tradesman in the neighbourhood of St. James's Street.
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, that he should also vote for the production of the letters, for if the Government were justified in reading extracts from them this year to support a larger Vote, they had not satisfactorily accounted for their withholding them last year when they proposed a smaller Vote.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, as this was a matter which had been brought under his notice in the course of last year, he hoped his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State would forgive him if he ventured to suggest the course which he thought the Government would do well to adopt in relation to it. The civil laws of Jersey were in a state that was anything but satisfactory, and the mode of procedure before the legal tribunals there had caused great discontent. If this Motion were to be acceded to be thought that there were other matters relating to prisons which might be inquired into at the same time. There was a Commission appointed to inquire into the criminal law of Jersey which had made a valuable Report. Some of their recommendations were acted upon and others not.
 299
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT   said, that since he had been in office he had felt it to be his duty to look into the question referred to in the Motion, and had found from some correspondence he had had with persons living in the island that great confusion existed in the administration of the civil law in Jersey. He would not, therefore, oppose the Motion. With regard to the other matters in it he did not know much, but he was willing to abide by the view taken of it by the right hon. and learned Member for Cambridge.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, the hon. Gentleman had taken him rather by surprise. That being St. Patrick's night, he should not have expected that any Irish Gentleman would propose to introduce a Bill which, on the face of the notice, appeared to portend something like a Reform Bill for Ireland. Presuming that the Bill was of more serious importance than from the explanation of the hon. Gentleman it seemed to be, he had expected that the hon. Gentleman would have made an arrangement with a Gentleman who was not then present, and who knew more about the subject than he (Mr. Sotheron Estcourt) did, as to the time for submitting this Motion to the House. [Mr. BRADY: I did at range with the noble Secretary for Ireland.] He confessed he did not understand either the defects which existed or the proposed mode of remedying them, notwithstanding the pains which the hon. Gentleman had taken to explain both the one and the other. However, when he saw the Bill in print he should, no doubt, be better able to understand it. If it was true that proper time was not allowed by the law for the publication of the objections to voters, the time ought, no doubt, to be enlarged, and, on the understanding that that was merely the object of the Bill, he, on the part of the Government, had no objection to offer to its introduction.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he entirely agreed with the right hon. Gentleman who last addressed the House that the Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Galway was so worded as to open so wide a field for inquiry that it was hardly possible to know to what particular subject the Committee should confine its investigation. If the word reorganization was retained the Committee would have to extend its labours for many years; but he understood the hon. Gentleman to complain chiefly of the want of accommodation, and with regard to that point they found that the room was clearly insufficient fur the purposes of the institution, and they were almost driven to the
 270
 MR. BAXTER  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury if the attention to the Government has been directed to the Report of the Commissioners on the subject of Harbours of Refuge, recommending grants of public money, amounting to £2,365,000 to ten harbours; and if the Government intend to propose in the Estimates for 1859 to take a Vote on account, by agreeing to which the House would be committed to this expenditure; and if any further sum was to be asked this year for the works at Alderney and Dovor.
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he had not had the good fortune to be present at the early part of this discussion, but he concurred in what he knew were the general views of his hon. Friend the Member for Tavistock (Sir J. Trelawny). The real question at issue was this, whether it was for the advantage of the army or the country that the privileges of the Guards should be maintained? If the duties of the Guards were confined to London or to attendance upon the Sovereign the matter would he of little consequence, but as every one knew that the Guards were among the most distinguished regiments in the service, as their boast was, that wherever there was war they were present, it was clear that their position must be viewed as a military one. [ Laughter 292 Ironical Cheers. Cries of
 MR. GREGORY  said, that in framing his Motion he had purposely used words of rather wide signification, because, besides the question as to the separation of the collections and the site, he wished to embrace in the reference certain points of detail connected with the internal structure of the Museum, which should be so decided as to leave no doubt that they should have a lecture-room and lectures in the Museum. He would, therefore, willingly fall in with the suggestion of the House if any hon. Member would find him a word comprehensive enough to include the disposition. of the collection, the site of the building, its structure, the establishment of lectures, and the providing of a lecture-room. He had not intended to say, as the noble Lord had represented, that the trust was too much in the hands of noble Dukes and great persons, nor to contend that the Trustees ought not to be consulted in this matter. What he wanted was, to introduce into the trust men who had derived their eminence exclusively from science. He would, however, withdraw his Motion, and substitute the following:—"A Select, Committee to inquire into the accommodation required for the collections of the British Museum."
 MR. GREGORY  said that, considering the difference of opinion which prevailed in the House, he would ask permission to withdraw his Motion with the view of bringing it forward the next day in an amended form.
 MR. GREGORY  said, he rose to move for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the re-organization of the British Museum. As, however, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had consented to grant this Committee, he did not consider it necessary to enter into any elaborate statement of the motives which had induced him to make the Motion. He must, however, ask the attention of the House for a short time while he endeavoured to show that he was not going unnecessarily to occupy the time of those hon. Gentlemen who might consent to serve on the Committee, or to defeat the laudable intention of the Government to remedy the defective state of the Museum. That the British Museum was at present in a lamentable state of congestion must be apparent to any one who had either visited it or read the reports of the heads of departments. So far back as the year 1854, Dr. Grey, the keeper of the zoological department, reported that the zoological collection, which had cost between £14,000 and £15,000, besides the specimens presented, was almost entirely useless to the public from its inaccessibility, and that, if it were not shortly removed to a drier place, it would be utterly destroyed. In November, 1857, Mr. Panizzi stated that no specimen in this department could be scientifically examined without displacing two or three others; that the osteological collection, as well as many of the specimens preserved in spirits, being placed in the basement, were altogether withdrawn from public exhibition, and were
 251 252 253 254 255 256 ad captandum 257 258 "To open the book of nature without providing means for explaining her language to the masses was akin to the system which kept the Hook of God sealed to the multitude in a dead tongue." 259
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that if any charge wore made against the present Government in conducting the affairs of the Admiralty he was not prepared to endorse it. The present Board of Admiralty had been unwearied in their exertions to put the navy in an efficient state; but he was sorry to say the navy was not in the state which he could wish, considering the enormous sums which had been spent upon it. With regard to the Motion before the House, if the letter of Sir Baldwin Walker were confidential he should be the last man to ask for its production; but they would remember the First Lord of the Admiralty referred to and read extracts from it, clearly showing that the letter was not of a confidential nature. He therefore thought it ought to be laid upon the table, especially at a time like this, when there was a growing feeling throughout the country that there was something wrong about the administration of the Navy.
 SIR ARTHUR ELTON  rose to move that an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that she will be graciously pleased to give directions that the benefits conferred by the Royal Warrant of the 17th of December, 1855, upon Regimental Quartermasters retiring subsequent to the date of the declaration of the war with Russia may be extended to those Regimental Quartermasters who completed the period of service specified in the Warrant, but who had retired previous to that date. To make his case clear, he might state that the Royal Warrant of 1855 allowed quartermasters, who had completed the term of thirty years' service, ten of which were in the office of quartermaster, to retire with the honorary rank of captain upon the half-pay of 10s. a day. That order was retrospective as far back as the date of the commencement of the Russian war, and its main object was to procure the retirement of old and worn-out officers in order to make room for younger and more efficient men; but he trusted that a more extensive application would be given to it than seemed to be contemplated by its framers. The number of quartermasters who had retired previous to the declaration of the late war was only forty-three, and the addition of 2s. a day to their pay would not amount to more than £2,000 per annum. They were very far advanced in years; they were much shattered by long service; and they were not likely therefore to trouble the country long. A large proportion of them had not only performed efficiently the unassuming but important duties of quartermaster, but had displayed remarkable courage and heroism in various battles, sieges, and storms. He might state
 272
 SIR ARTHUR ELTON  said, he would put the Motion in the amended form suggested by the right hon. Gentleman.
 SIR ARTHUR ELTON  said, that in deference to the opinions expressed on both sides of the House, he would withdraw his Motion; but he hoped, as he could not get extra money for those whose cause he advocated, that the right hon. and gallant General would, at any rate, take into consideration the advisability of giving them extra rank, and would deem it expedient to recommend that they should have the honorary rank of captain granted to them.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, it was quite true that the First Lord of the Admiralty read some extracts from Sir Baldwin Walker's letters; but he did not want extracts, he wanted the actual letters themselves. It appeared that Sir Baldwin Walker was obliged to write three times to the First Lord of the Admiralty before he would take any notice of his suggestions —once in March, again in May, and again, he believed, in July. The time was when a First Lord of the Admiralty would have been impeached for leaving the British navy only one ship ahead of that of France. It was admitted that the navy was in a most unsatisfactory state; and the question was, whether the First Lord of the Admiralty had remedied those evils as soon as he came into office. The present Board, when they came into office, reduced the Estimates as far as the dockyards were concerned; and now an immense number of shipwrights were entered to bring the navy into a proper state. If that had been done last March we should now be in a different position. He thought great blame was due to the present Board as well as to the late Boards, for the present Board had not made all the exertions they ought to have made to put the navy in a proper state. He trusted the House would support him in endeavouring to get these papers.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Corry) had made a most extraordinary statement, which he was sorry to say was not unusual for him. He said that the present Board had added eighteen sail of the line and fifteen frigates to the fleet. ["No, no!"] Well, then, fifteen sail of the line and eighteen frigates. But the right hon. Gentleman (Sir John Pakington) himself bad stated that we had in all thirty-three sail, and the French thirty-two. How, then, could the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Corry) account for the addition of fifteen sail of the line and eighteen frigates. The Secretary to the Admiralty had, on a previous occasion, made another very remarkable statement. He had told the House that it would cost £ 164,000 to replace the old and inefficient coastguard ships with the efficient ships which he said were ready. That he (Sir Charles Napier) knew to be incorrect. The change could be made in eight-and-forty hours, and he would leave the House to see what accuracy there could be in the right hon. Gentleman's statement. Any naval officer would tell him that he was quite wrong; but though the right hon. Gentleman had twice been Secretary to the Admiralty he still knew nothing about it.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER , in reply, observed that the Secretary to the Admiralty had made a very extraordinary statement, which he was sorry to say was not an unusual thing for him to do. He said that eighteen sail of the line—
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, he rose to move for a copy of letters from Sir
 300
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said he should persist in his Motion.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he would beg to ask whether any accounts have reached the War or Colonial Departments relating to the sickness and mortality to a detachment of two Companies of the 41st Regiment, detached to Trinidad, and said to have been left there unrelieved for a very long period; and, if so, whether there will be any objection to lay the same before the House; also, if there are any soldiers of the 41st Regiment who have completed their ten years' service, why they are not permitted to avail themselves of the option they are entitled to by their completion of service.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he had served both in the Line and in the Guards, and he had never heard at the mess of any regiment of the Line in which he had served any feeling of jealousy expressed with respect to what were called the "privileges of the Guards." On the contrary, he believed it was a subject for pride and satisfaction common to both, and he thought it attended by political advantage that our military system was one which induced men of
 288
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the documents in question were confidential papers presented to the Admiralty, and it would be neither in accordance with precedent nor beneficial to the public service to produce them. He had already communicated the substance of them to the House in the statement he had made on introducing the Estimates.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I rise to order. The gallant Admiral has both spoken on the introduction of his Motion and has subsequently replied.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  seconded the Motion.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he thought it desirable that the Committee should be appointed. After what had occurred about the National Gallery, it was quite essential that an inquiry should take place. A memorial against the separation of the collections in the Museum had been signed by all the leading men of science in the country, who said that the removal of any of the collections from their present central position would be viewed with great disfavour by the public generally.
 SIR RICHARD BETHELL  said, that if the Government Bill should be laid upon the table of the House, it would unquestionably be the desire of the promoters of this Bill to postpone it. Still it was desirable that this Bill should be brought in.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, the question of the hon. and learned Member was the first notice that had been given of any inconvenience having arisen, and, therefore, no arrangements were being made respecting it. He had been in communication with the Board of Inland Revenue on the latter part of the subject,
 248
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, the Report of the Commissioners had been presented only a few days before, and its importance was such that the Government could not possibly give any answer at present as to the course which they might adopt with respect to it. With regard to the latter part of the hon. Member's ques-
 249
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, the advantage to which the hon. Gentleman referred had certainly been given to persons sending their cheques to be stamped in London and Dublin because there were presses there. Steps were being taken to extend the same privilege to Edinburgh;' Dies were prepared, and the only thing that was wanted was a room to receive the presses. He believed that in the course of the next week the alteration would have taken effect.
 SIR ERSKINE PERRY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India whether the Report on the organization of the Indian Army has been presented; and, if so, when it will be laid upon the table of the House.
 MR. HUTT  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether the Government contemplate introducing into the Reform Bill, in Committee, any other Amendment than that of which he has given notice to the House?
 VISCOUNT BURY  said, he hoped his hon. Friend would not press his Motion to a division after the lucid statement of the right hon. and gallant General; but, if he did, he (Viscount Bury) having served in the distinguished rank of Ensign and Lieutenant in the Guards for a short period should feel sufficient  esprit de corps 284 285
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that there would be obvious inconvenience in establishing a precedent such as that proposed by the Motion, for if it should be thought right to increase the half-pay of certain officers in the army, and if the consequence were to be that the same increase must be extended to the whole half-pay list, no Government would probably like to propose to Parliament such an immense increase of expenditure. In the same way
 276
 GENERAL PEEL  said, that as the hon. Gentleman had made a personal appeal he would answer him respecting the contests at Huntingdon at once. The first was when he first went to the borough, when he was opposed by a Gentleman whose politics somewhat resembled those of the hon. Gentleman. That was in 1830 or 1831, and after the passing of the Reform Bill, he was again opposed by a gentleman who polled a considerable number of votes in his favour. The hon. Gentleman insisted that Huntingdon was a pocket borough of Lord Sandwich. Now he could tell the hon. Member that if Lord Sandwich and all the House of Lords were to unite together to return him (Mr. Duncombe) for the borough of Huntingdon they could not do it. He said that with all respect to the hon. Member, for the reason was that his political opinions were not in unison with a large majority of the most respectable constituents. The hon. Member said that three gentlemen of Liberal politics were passed over, and among them the Mayor of Huntingdon. What opportunities the hon. Member had of knowing that gentleman's political opinions he (General Peel) did not know. He was precluded from voting at elections, as he hold a situation in the Stamp Office; but he (General Peel) had known him for many years, and he had reason to believe that his political opinions were more in unison with his (General Peel's) than with those of the hon. Member. He was very sorry if, in what he said on a former occasion, he had said anything to offend the hon. Member; he only meant to say he had been misinformed from beginning to end of his statements; and he still thought so, but he never meant to say that the
 338
 MR. HARDY  said, with reference to the subject which was brought before the House by the hon. Member for West Surrey, it was not confined to this metropolis nor to the House of Correction, to which he alluded. There had been, he was sorry to say, a too general misinterpretation of a clause in the Criminal Justice Act which led to a great deal of abuse. The Act was intended to empower magistrates to deal summarily with cases of petty larceny or first offences; but it was applied by some magistrates to persons who had been previously convicted, not two or three, but many times. The magistrates committed these offenders sometimes for six months, sometimes for throe months, always for short periods, so that there was no power of bringing reformatory influences to bear upon them. There were other persons besides who, for petty offences, were sent to prison fifty or sixty times over for a week or ten days at a time; and the moment they were let out they began their vicious habits again. With respect to the intentions of the Secretary of State, he
 340
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, In reference to the question which has been put by the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, I wish to assure him and the House that the Government fully recognize the great services which have been rendered by Sir John Lawrence; but I cannot altogether admit that which, if not stated, was at least implied in the speech of the hon. Member—that no recognition of those services has already taken place. I do not speak of the promotion of Sir John Lawrence to the
 346 347
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he was sorry it would not be in his power to meet the views of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Stafford, who, it should be borne in mind, had on many occasions complained of the expenditure of the Foreign Office Department. He was not now prepared to follow the hon. Gentleman in the observations he had made; he should confine himself to shortly answering the questions he had asked, but on Monday or Tuesday he should place upon the table papers which would entirely explain and amply justify the course which Government had taken on the subject. The hon. Gentleman first asked how the £40,000 a year voted for the expenses of Government messengers was disposed of. In answer to that, he (Mr. Seymour FitzGerald) would remind him that £35,000 of that sum was expended in providing for the expenses of messengers and couriers for the Foreign Office and Home Office, and for telegraphs —the expenses for the last item having very much increased within the last two or three years. There was also a deficiency in the sums voted for that purpose in the year 1857 and 1858, and a portion of the £40,000 had been applied to that purpose. But with regard to one part of the expenses, which had been very large —that of messengers to St. Petersburgh and Constantinople—by the improvements introduced by his noble Friend (the Earl of Malmesbury), a very considerable saving— £10,000 or £12,000 a year—would be effected. The second question asked by the hon. Gentleman was as to what was the tenure of office of those messengers. The Queen's messengers held their office during good behaviour, and under a warrant signed by the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. Their salaries were necessarily of a very fluctuating nature, and hitherto in case of illness they received scarcely any salary; but under the new system of his noble Friend they would have a fixed salary of £525 a year each, in addition to which they would be allowed expenses for boat hire, coach hire, railway expenses, and other items. He should not now enter further into the question; he would only say that when the papers to which he had referred were laid upon the table, the House would see that the arrangements made were not unfair nor unjust.
 GENERAL CODRINGTON  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty whether the public objection of the Admiralty to the embankment of Chichester Harbour, as notified to this House on 14th February last, has been removed; if so, on what grounds; and whether he can lay on the Table of the House the written consent of the Board?
 MR. CORRY  replied that the Admiralty as conservators of all navigable waters entertained the strongest objection to the proposal, and that they intended to offer to it their decided opposition.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  seconded the Amendment,
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he thought the House ought not the proceed with the Bill in the absence of an estimate of what the probable increased charge would be. The right hon. Member for the University of Oxford had made some very proper observations, as he thought, upon the injustice of remitting the deductions without entering into the question of the salaries. There was no occupation in the country in which persons were employed so few hours per day, as in the Civil Service. They were supposed to work from ten in the morning until four in the afternoon; but a considerable portion of the morning was devoted to reading the newspaper, and talk-
 368
 MR. WILSON  said, from his own experience he could understand the difficulty which the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Treasury felt in attempting to form any accurate estimate of what the additional cost of these new arrangements would be. It was his (Mr. Wilson's) duty, two years since, to bring under the consideration of the House what the ultimate result of a fair superannuation measure must be; because it was perfectly obvious to the Government of that day that the remission of deductions was only a part of a series of measures which must necessarily follow. He (Mr. Wilson) then made a statement of the ultimate additional cost that would be entailed upon the country by the proposed measure, and estimated it at £100,000 for the remission of abatements, and another £100,000 for the creation of additional pensions. He did not understand that the present Bill proposed any additional scale for superannuation. The scheme of the Government, like that proposed by the Treasury of that day, acting upon the recommendations of the Committee, was this—according to the Act of 1834, the pensions were regulated by periods of seven years, and a person was entitled, at the end of ten years and under fifteen years' service, to four-fifths of his annual allowance. The result of the Bill would be to give effect to the practice which had hitherto prevailed in awarding pensions under former Acts of apportioning the pensions to the exact number of years of service. As he understood the question, the Government did not propose to increase the scale of compensation to be given. The only effect, therefore, as far as regards those who were formerly paid under the 40th scale would be to give them a Parliamentary title to their compensation, instead of the title to be derived from an Order in Council merely. With regard to Post-office servants, those only were now entitled to compensation who were in the offices at London, Dublin, and Edinburgh; but he confessed he could not see upon what principle of justice clerks employed at Liverpool, Bristol, or Glasgow, should not equally be en-
 369
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he was ready to accept the consequences of the decision that the abatements should be abolished, and that the distinction which the payment of those abatements previously made between the class of public servants entitled to superannuation allowances by reason of their being subject to such abatements and the class of officers not entitled to superannuation allowances by reason of not being subject to such deductions should be done away with. But he was not prepared to go beyond that principle. He could see no reason why the principle which the hon. Baronet embodied in his Resolution should not be carried out—namely, that no increase should be made in the scale of superannuations now fixed by law. The hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Treasury was in error when he stated that the late Government had introduced a Bill altering the scale of superannuations last Session, or since the time when abatements were abolished. The Bill which he introduced upon the subject was introduced previous to the decision of the House with respect to the abolition of the system of abatement. He (Sir George Lewis) felt himself quite at liberty to vote against the scale of superannuation proposed by the present Bill; but he approved that scale in so far as it converted the septennial division into an annual payment; though he saw no reason why the scale of allowance fixed by the present law should be increased. No reason had been assigned for any substantial increase in the existing scale. With regard to the introduction of a new class of officers entitled to superannuation pensions, he admitted it was desirable that an intelligible rule should be laid down; but what he con-
 372
 GENERAL CODRINGTON  said, he rose to draw attention to the case of the artificers employed in the steam factories in the dockyards, and he wished to ask whether it would not be worth the while of the Government to consider if it would not be desirable to place them on a footing which would secure their permanent services.
 MR. WILSON  said, that the whole scope of the Bill was to diminish as much as possible the discretion of the Treasury. With regard to the statement of the gallant Member, he might explain that the artificers to whom he referred were a fluctuating body. They were attached to the steam factories, and they were in no way bound to the Government.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, there was one Amendment already before the Committee.
 SIR FREDERICK SMITH  said, he hoped the hired men would be included in the provisions of the Bill. They were almost permanently employed, and did the same work as the established men.
 MR. DEASY  said, he wished to know what was the meaning of the words "established capacity."
 MR. WILSON  remarked, that the words "established capacity" were perfectly intelligible to every person acquainted with the public departments.
 THE CHAIRMAN  declared that the
 379
 COLONEL NORTH  remarked, that under it persons who had arrived at the age of sixty-five, though they might be hale and hearty, were obliged to retire, which might be a great loss to them.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  asked how far this clause would affect the present state of the law, which limited the number of pensions payable to Under Secretaries of State?
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the two next clauses referred to the case of a full grant of superannuation allowance. In the case of a subordinate officer it would be competent to the head of the department to make the necessary certificate, but in the case of the head of a department, of course he could not certify to himself, and therefore the regulation had been made that the Treasury should certify to the fact.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that this Bill would bring under the provision of the Superannuation Act a large body of officers who were not at present within its provisions—many of whom would not be under the immediate observation of the Treasury. The effect of the Bill generally was to increase the burden upon the public, and to benefit the public service. If the Committee acknowledged the right or understood claim of every public officer to retire at sixty, the difference would be that a considerable addition would be made to the public expenditure, and a corresponding advantage would accrue to the service. Now, he did not feel satisfied that any sufficient case had been made out, and he should therefore move that the words "sixty-five" he substituted for "sixty" in the clause.
 MR. MILES  observed that the House allowed Members of the House to be exempt from serving on Committees at the age of sixty.
 MR. WILSON  said, he thought the Committee appeared to be of opinion that the charge upon the country would be much greater than it would be found in reality. He did not share in that apprehension.
 MR. SERJEANT DEASY  proposed an alteration, in order to exempt persons from the necessity of retiring from public offices, at the age of sixty-five, who had been appointed in a certain manner.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he referred to the Acts intended to be repealed. The Government had no objection to the repeal of the first three Acts, so far as they related to newspapers. But with regard to the 6 and 7  Will Vict
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, he would propose to nominate the Select Committee on this subject.
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, he had no party object in view when he drew up the Committee. His only desire was to have a full and fair inquiry. He might further say that the composition of the Committee was approved by the Secretary for War.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, it was at his suggestion that the name of Viscount Palmerston was inserted in the list.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he was anxious that there should he some understanding as to the objects of the inquiry; as the latter part of the Motion stood, there was no limit to the extent to which the inquiry might be carried.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  suggested that the words objected to should be struck out and others inserted; so it would stand, "render them available for purposes of instruction." The proposal of the hon. Gentleman would create a total revolution in the arrangement, objects, and character of the Museum. The present officials were chosen totally irrespective of any purpose of teaching; there were no rooms for lectures in the institution, and the alterations which would be necessary to fit it up as a university would involve a large expense.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that as the noble Lord (Lord Stanley) could not speak twice on the Motion he might be permitted to remark that now the dreadful events of the mutiny were over, there was a general expectation that some distinguished mark of merit would be given to Sir John Lawrence, The late Government of India actually made a provision for any honour that might be conferred on that distinguished man, for they gave him a pension, and there would be a general feeling of disappointment if the man who was considered the saviour of India had not some mark of favour from the Crown bestowed on him.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he rose to
 331
 LORD ADOLPHUS VANE-TEMPEST  said, he also had to complain of the composition of the Committee. On a subject referring to military organization the military element was not sufficiently represented in the persons of General Codrington, whose services, owing to his appointment to a foreign command, the House will shortly lose; of Lord March, whose duties in his department and interest in another Committee might prevent his attendance; and of Lord Hotham, the only military man on the Committee. Two Members, Sir John Ramsden and Mr. Monsell, ought more properly to be called as witnesses. From the constitution of the Committee, containing five members formerly connected with the civil War Department, there would he a majority inclining to the views strongly advocated last year by the Mover—namely, that the Army should he brought under the more complete control of the Secretary of State for War, who, in the generality of instances, would be a civilian.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, in answer to my hon. Friend I have to say that every one must admit the inconvenience of the present situation of the courts of law, and that a scheme of concentration, if it could be carried out, would be a great been to the legal profession. But my hon. Friend must be aware, that though the Incorporated Law Society and the Law Amendment Society have recommended that the Government should concentrate the courts of law and equity, and have pointed out the means by which, in their opinion, such a concentration could be accomplished; yet a great number of persons of the highest eminence in the profession are of opinion, in the first place, that the funds to which my hon. Friend has referred could not be realized, and in the next place, that if they could, they are not properly applicable to the building of courts of common and civil law. Under these circumstances, I may tell my hon. Friend that the present Government are not prepared to take any immediate steps in the matter. With respect to the other part of my hon. Friend's question, I am willing to admit that the two points I have mentioned may very properly be made the subject of investigation, and the only question is whether that investigation shall take place by means of a Select Committee or by a Royal Commission. I am not prepared, at present, to tell my hon. Friend which of these courses will be adopted, but I will communicate it to the House as soon as the Government shall have decided which is most advisable.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL :—Before this debate goes further, I wish to make some remarks in reference to what has fallen from the hon. Members for Sheffield (Mr.
 343 344 345
 LORD LOVAINE  replied, that there was no communication between the Board of Trade and the Thames Conservancy Board; but he understood that the Harbour Master's Office at Greenwich had not yet been abolished, but that part of the duties had been transferred to the office at Tower Hill, where the orders for the colliers lying in the river between Black wall and Gravesend were now issued to the owners or consignees, who themselves forwarded them to the vessels, thus saving time and expense.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that under these circumstances he should postpone the Committee till the 6th of April.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to know if the Government objected to this Bill, because if they did he would fix the Committee for some other day.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, I rise, Sir, to put a question to the First Commissioner of Works relative to a subject of great public interest. I do not put the question with any artistic view, but as a simple one of convenience, I might almost say of necessity, to what will be admitted to be an influential, and is certainly an important class of society—I mean the legal profession of England. I think every one who has had anything to do in the course of his experience with our courts of law must be aware of the great inconvenience that arises from their present dispersed situations. Some of them are located in Lincoln's Inn, some here, and some at Guildhall; so that Judges and lawyers, solicitors and their clerks, are left scouring about the town all day long in cabs and broughams to their great inconvenience and expense. It may be in the knowledge of the House that a scheme has been for some time before the world for the concentration of our law courts on a space of ground nearly seven acres in extent near all the Inns of Court, and affording full accommodation for all the courts of law and equity between Carey Street and the Strand. That scheme has met with the strongest recommendation from the highest authorities in the law—from the solicitors and proctors in their Incorporated Society, whose petition, in favour of the scheme, I had the honour to lay on the table of this House, and from the Society for the Amendment of the Law, which is under the presidency of Lord Brougham, and which is represented by some of our moot eminent barristers—all are exerting themselves in its favour., It seems also that there is a sum of money forthcoming for this purpose derived from a fund known as the Suitors' Fee Fund, which would he available, at least to a certain amount, for the purposes of this undertaking. For my own part, I had thought that this fund
 341 342
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he regretted that the Report of the Commissioners had not yet been laid on the table. Indeed, he could not help expressing his surprise, as well as his regret, that it had been so long delayed. The Commisioners were Lord Monteagle, Mr. Hubbard, and Lord Overstone. Having seen Lord Overstone, he knew that his Report was ready. He hoped that fact would induce the other Commissioners to hasten theirs, so that a measure on the subject might be introduced as early as possible.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that under the proposed arrangement forty years' service would be secured to the public before the retiring pension came into force. He did not think we ought to mete out a less measure of liberality than that given in the French civil service, which was admitted to be a very good one.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  observed that it was contemplated under this Act to admit no one into the civil service over the age of twenty-five; the average of persons entering the service would thus be of the age of twenty, and the present term of service was considered practically to amount to forty years. In France, members of the civil service were allowed to retire at fifty-five. He trusted the Committee would agree to the clause.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I do not think the effect of the Bill will be substantially to increase the scale of pensions; and I do not think that the Motion of the hon. Member for Evesham is founded on substantial evidence. No doubt there may be, in a certain sense, some slight increase in the superannuations under this Bill; but the increase has not been occasioned by any wish of increasing the salaries. The scale in the Bill is the scale recommended by a Committee
 373 374 375
 ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he considered that those skilled labourers who were employed in the construction of the steam navy, and were, although not on the establishment, permanently employed in the
 377
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he wished to ask the Vice-President of the Board of Trade whether he has received information from the Conservancy Board of the River Thames as to the removal of the Harbour Master's office from the river side at East Greenwich to an office at Tower Hill, and, if so, on what grounds of public convenience such removal has been determined?
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he would propose to omit the words two-thirds, and to insert three-fourths in the clause, with a view of providing for meritorious cases, in which a greater proportion of the salary as a retiring allowance, might be deserved,
 380
 MR. FELLOWES  said, he could not help expressing his regret that the hon. Gentleman had thought fit to renew this subject after what had been said on the former occasion. The hon. Gentleman had said that everything which he had previously stated was correct. Now, with all respect for the hon. Member, he begged to tell him that what he had stated on a previous occasion was substantially wrong. He had represented him (Mr. Fellowes) to have said that none of these clergymen canvassed with him at his election. He had never said anything of the kind. What he had stated, and what he would repeat, was this, that these gentlemen were not put into the commission of the peace as a reward for political services. And he begged to tell him that though some of these gentlemen were Conservatives, and one or two did canvass with him, they did not take any active part in the election for the county. The hon. Gentleman had brought forward the name of the Rev. Mr. Stopford, and had alleged that his was a very improper appointment. He believed that some charge was brought against that gentleman at the assizes, but whatever the decision was, there was nothing to affect his personal character, or make him unfit to be in the commission of the peace. So far from that rev. gentleman taking any active part in the election of the county, he did nothing beyond giving his vote for his hon. Friend and colleague. Although he was the agent of a large estate belonging to his brother, he would not influence any of the tenants, and the majority voted for the Liberal candidate. With respect to Mr. Spurling, what he stated was, that his father, who was since dead, and whom he had succeeded in the estates, was the owner of large property in the county; that he was a clergyman, and that he took a very active part in the election, not for the Conservatives, but for the Liberals. With regard to Mr. Shafto, he (Mr. Fellowes) certainly knew him as a strong political opponent, but he did not believe that he had been passed over on that account. He did not know how the hon. Gentleman was acquainted with the fact that Lord Sandwich had refused to appoint three gentlemen to the commission of the peace because they were Liberals, unless the hon. Member had had private communication with the noble Lord upon the subject, He believed that the hon.
 339
 MR. BEAMISH  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer when the Report of the Royal Commissioners on Decimal Currency, who were appointed in 1855, may be expected to be laid on the table?
 MR. G. CLIVE  moved the following Amendment—line 20, after "service" insert "and also an allowance of one-sixtieth for each three years' service of all persons who entered into the service of the State between the 30th day of September, 1829, and the 1st day of July, 1857, and who had paid the abatement on their salaries deducted by virtue of the Act 4 & 5  Will
 MR. HUNT  said, he hoped the House would allow him one word in defence of a personal friend, Mr. Stopford. As a proof of the high esteem in which that rev. gentleman was held, he might state that he had lately been appointed by the University of Oxford one of its proctors.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he must object to the construction of the Committee. It was composed of ten gentlemen from one side of the House, and of only five from the other; it did not comprise any officer of the Ordnance; the three officers who
 384
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he thought it but proper that the Treasury should have the discretion referred to, but he understood from the Bill that if a man had served twenty-nine years and was then discharged for a time, but afterwards brought back and retained in the service for seventeen years more, his superannuation would be calculated for the seventeen years only. That would, he considered, be a great injustice.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether he has considered the complaint addressed to him by the Visiting Magistrates of the House of Correction at Wands worth respecting the committal to their charge of old convicts from the Police Offices in London for short periods, instead of such convicts being committed for trial at the Old Bailey, and whether he proposes to take any steps to remedy the evil?
 MR. RICH  said, the practical question was, would the Treasury say that gentlemen between sixty and sixty-five were not fully competent to do their duty? If not they ought to be released.
 MR. BRADY  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Treasury what is the intention of the Government to do in reference to the Report of the Select Committee on the Petition of Mr. William Henry Barber.
 MR. BRISCOE  said, he would suggest that in bringing up the Report a schedule should be attached to the Bill, showing the civil servants who were entitled to superannuations.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he was compelled to intimate to the hon. Member that he was transgressing the rules of the House by proceeding to discuss the terms and substance of the noble Lord's Resolution.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it was passing the limits of order for the hon. Member to reply in detail to an hon. Gentleman who had addressed the House in a past debate. He had understood from the hon. Member that he merely desired to make an explanation in reference to certain points on which he had been misapprehended. To re-open the whole question, and reply to the hon. Gentleman who spoke in a former debate, would be entirely out of order.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it would be out of order then to discuss a subject fixed for a future day; but he understood that the hon. and learned Member proposed to address a question to the noble Lord the Member for London, on a notice the noble Lord had placed on the paper.
 MR. ROEBUCK : I hope the House will grant me its indulgence. I am not often in the habit of troubling it at any length, and what I have to say will soon be brought to a close. When I was so kindly interrupted I was about to observe that by the course the noble Lord would persuade the House to pursue the question of Reform is very likely to be deferred indefinitely. I would therefore ask the noble Lord to adopt a precedent of his own. During the last Session of Parliament the right hon. Gentleman opposite brought in a Bill to reorganize the Government of India. That Bill did not meet any favourable reception in this House. The noble Lord, then, with that chivalry that belongs to him, stepped in to aid the right hon. Gentlemen opposite, and proposed that the House should proceed by way of Resolution, that the Bill brought in by the Government should be dropped, and that the House should come to certain Resolutions on which a new Bill should be introduced. The noble Lord, having regard to the interests of India—and thereby for the interest of England also—proposed that course. I now ask the noble Lord to consider that the interests of England are bound up with a new Reform Bill; I ask him whether he cannot borrow an example from his own principle, and enlarge the Amendment he has proposed into a series of Resolutions which may be the foundation of a new and better Bill. I put this question to the noble Lord, and I am sure he will be kind enough to give me an answer. [Lord J. RUSSELL dissented.] I now ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether, if the course I have suggested is pursued, Her Majesty's Government will be prepared to forego the present Bill and bring in another framed in accordance with the Resolutions adopted by the House. Having put these two questions, one to the noble Lord, the other to the right hon. Gentleman opposite, I would address myself to the hon. Gentlemen behind me, particularly the hon. Member for Birmingham
 332 333
 MR. ROEBUCK , Sir, I rise to make a formal Motion that the House at its rising do adjourn till Monday. I do so for the purpose of making certain observations, and, as I think it possible those observations may provoke some remarks, I do so for the purpose of reserving to myself the right of reply. Sir, I suppose I may assume that the great majority of this House is very anxious the question of Parliamentary Reform should be settled. That, I think, is not a very wild proposition, or one unsupported by facts. But it appears to me that the course the House is now invited to pursue will, if adopted, lead to the exactly opposite result. Now, with the permission of the House, I will address myself to the noble Lord the Member for the City of London; he has put upon the books of the House a Resolution which, if carried, will, though not formally, yet in reality, negative the Bill introduced by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. I think one consequence of this will be that you may not have a chance of passing anything like a Reform Bill this year, because we are told to expect that the right hon. Gentlemen on the Ministerial Bench will thereupon dissolve this House. [ Cries of
 MR. VANCE  said, he wished to inquire
 376
 MR. WISE  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs how the £40,000 voted in the Estimates for the Foreign Office Messengers are disposed of; what is the tenure of the office of
 348 349 Messageries Impériales 350 s. 351
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to know if it were intended that the men should undergo an examination by the Civil Service Commissioners?
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the clause considered only the  status
 MR. MALINS  said, he should oppose the Amendment, and put it to the Committee whether they would prevent a public servant from enjoying the only five years of his life which it might be in his power to pass in comfort.
 MR. GREER  moved an Amendment, protecting the interests of the class—a very limited one—of public servants who had entered between 1829 and 1834. They wore not numerous, and an attention to their claims would not seriously affect the Bill. What be proposed was, that their retiring allowances should be fixed at the rate which was current at the period at which they entered office.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, the terms of the Motion had been approved of by the Chancellor of the Exchequer and himself, and, in his opinion, they fully carried out the understanding come to on the previous evening, and the vagueness of the words of the reference were intended to meet the various views then urged.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he was not aware they had been consulted. He understood that the subject of the trust was not at all involved in the inquiry.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he merely wished to make a personal explanation, as he had been accused of stating what was not true in that House. The right hon. and gallant Gentleman said that he was incorrect from beginning to end. He (Mr. Duncombe) had stated that there had been no contest for Huntingdon for thirty years; and, to a certain extent, he was wrong. The right hon. and gallant Gentleman said that there had, for he himself had stood two within that period. He would ask the right hon. and gallant Gentleman when? He knew that the right hon. and gallant Gentleman had a contest at the time of the Reform Bill; but when was the other? It was true that Mr. Prendergast, an eminent barrister, once went down to Huntingdon, but he received the answer which was proverbial in the town, "It's no use your coming here, our Members are return in Lord Sandwich's drawing-room." Mr. Prendergast withdrew before the nomination, and the right hon. and gallant Gentleman would surely not call that a contest. The right hon. and gallant Gentleman said that Huntingdon was not a pocket I rough; but he (Mr. Duncombe) held in I hand a book which gave all the informa-
 337
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he supposed
 335 336
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he did not propose to enter at any length into a discussion of the provisions of this Bill. He had listened with great interest to the very clear and most ingenuous statement of his hon. Friend the Secretary for the Treasury, but at the same time it appeared to him that the Bill raised some very serious questions for the consideration of the House. In the First place his hon. Friend made a large demand on the House when as financial Secretary he exhorted them to take a broad view in this matter, and so contrived his own invitations as to apply it to this point, and asked the House to enact a system of pensions on a new basis, without knowing what classes were to be included within the provisions of the measure, and without being aware of the extent of the burden about to be added to the already heavy burdens on the public finances. He knew that it was difficult even for a Government Department to obtain exact information on this subject; but he must impress on the House the absolute duty to have the best estimate which the Government could give, and not to proceed to adopt a new system without obtaining such an estimate from the Government as at all events it must be in their power to afford. He thought he saw from some parts of the statement of his hon. Friend, that the reason why they had not given an estimate at the present moment was, not that the subject was incapable of any estimate, but the communications between the Treasury and the different departments had not yet reached a stage of maturity to enable the Government to arrive at an estimate.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he had merely stated the inference which he drew from what the hon. Gentleman had said, that
 365 366 367
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he entertained a similar opinion, and he would suggest that the latter words, "and the best means of rendering them available for the promotion of science and art," be omitted. He begged to move that these words be struck out.
 MR. COX  said, he was sorry he was out of order. He would, however, endeavour to steer clear of the difficulty. At ail events, a notice had been given of some Amendment, which, as he was told, was to effect—[ Cries of 334
 MR. COX  said, he rose to express his obligation to the hon. and learned Gentleman for having put the question which he (Mr. Cox) had given notice of his intention to put to the right hon. Gentleman. Knowing the hon. and learned Gentleman's standing in that House, he was free to admit that he was glad the hon. and learned Gentleman had done so, and also that he had addressed another question to the noble Lord the Member for London. Like the hon. and learned Member, he was not at all satisfied with the position in which the question of Reform stood in that House. If, on the second reading of the Government Bill, it were met with a direct negative, he should have no hesitation in the vote he should give, for he should go into the lobby and vote against it; but when he found the noble Lord placing an Amendment upon the paper for which the hon. Gentlemen sitting below the gangway—he meant the Radical party—would feel themselves bound to vote. ["No no!"] Well, then, he would speak for himself, and say that he, as one of the Radical party, would feel bound to vote for it; and that it was placing aim in a position of very great difficulty, because the noble Lord's Amendment did not go far enough to satisfy him or those who called themselves Radicals in that House. The Amendment of the noble Lord stated that the Bill of the Government was not satisfactory, because it did not provide for a sufficient extension of the suffrage in boroughs and cities. ["Order, order!"]
 MR. GREGORY  moved,
 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire how far, and in what way, it may be desirable to find increased space for the extension and arrangement of the various collections of the British Museum, and the best means of rendering them available for the promotion of science and art."
 MR. GREGORY  said, he could not assent to the Amendment; the wording of the Motion had been approved of by the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary. The public was determined there should be an inquiry to ascertain whether the Museum could not be made available for instruction as well as exhibition. He considered the Motion, as it stood, fully carried out the understanding come to on the previous evening.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he could not see that any valid objection had been brought forward to the existing state of things, and if a division took place he should vote against the proposed change.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that although an economist, and anxious to save the public money, he was bound at the same time to be just, and therefore he should support the Bill. The higher servants of the Crown were able to provide for their old age out of their salaries, but the lower class could not do so, and if they were permanent servants it was the duty of the State to do that for them which they could not do for themselves. In the great towns the Post-office runners were upon
 370
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, he wished to ask the hon. Baronet the Secretary to the Treasury the meaning of the words "in an established service," because he had had the honour of being entrusted with a petition signed by 800 persons, who claimed to be placed on the same footing as other public servants? The petitioners were a useful body of men, namely, the process-servers of Ireland. He did not desire to extend the operation of this Bill, which he considered one of the most discreditable ever introduced by any Government; but, as hon. Members seemed to take it as an accomplished fact, he thought it but fair that the claims of all classes should be brought before the Committee and the Government.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  complained of the hardship that was inflicted upon numbers of the constabulary who had been discharged from their service in Ireland without any compensation or superannuation, while officials who were discharged from the Poor Law Board were superannuated. On these grounds he objected to the discretionary power of the Treasury in cases of this kind.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, be rose to move an Amendment to the clause.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, he would then move an Amendment to the effect that no person be entitled to superannuation allowance, except granted in respect of any office mentioned in the schedule to this Act annexed, "except as hereinafter mentioned."
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS : It meant any exception which the Treasury might start.
 GENERAL SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he understood that certain correspondence had been going on with reference to the Indian Artillery, and he wished to know when that correspondence would be laid before the House.
 MR. GROGAN  observed, that he was so satisfied with the explanation of his hon. Friend the Secretary of the Treasury, Sir Stafford Northcote, that he would withdraw his Amendment. His reason for moving the omission of the words was that they created a great deal of uncertainty among the civil servants. He would, however, still urge the claims of the engrossing clerks in the Scotch Land Office.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he wished to move the omission of the words "in an established capacity," because they had created great doubt and difficulty as to their exact meaning and application. It was supposed, and not without some reason, that if those words were not omitted from the Bill a certain class of civil servants in the largo departments—the Customs, for instance— would not be entitled to any superannuation unless they had been ten years in the service The class of persons here referred to were the supernumerary civil servants. These gentlemen, in many cases, devoted their whole time to the service of the country, and they ought to be admitted to the benefits of the measure. When the Committee considered that the Bill would not extend to any one who was not employed for ten years, they would, he thought, come to the conclusion that a supernumerary employed for that length of time ought to have a superannuation allowance. The words he proposed to expunge were not in the old Act, and why they should have been inserted in this Bill he did not know. He hoped the Committee would agree to his Motion.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he had opposed the Motion of the noble Lord now Secretary for Ireland, (Lord Naas), for getting rid of the old system of making no deductions from the salaries of public servants, and he did his best to persuade the House that it would be unwise and most expensive to adopt that step. The House, however, contrary to the opinion of the Government of the day and the Committee, was pleased to get rid of the system. The question was settled, and he had no desire to re-open it; but that was really the source and spring of the expenditure proposed by the present Bill. This Act was the corollary of the former one. The only question, then, was how much they had to pay. By the old scale a discretion was allowed to the Treasury within certain limits to give the good servant a larger, and the indifferent servant a smaller superannuation. By the present system that discretion was a good deal removed, and upon the whole he preferred the new plan to the old. With regard to those who were now introduced to the benefit of the Superannuation Fund for the first time, let him put the question to the House in this way:—They had now a higher class of public servants, they bad increased their salaries 5 per cent, and they proposed to give them a better scale of retiring allowances and certain other advantages. That being so, he asked on what principle they could possibly refuse to consider the case of a workman in the dockyard, who was less able to provide for old age, some small increase in his superannuation allowance, when the clerk who paid him his wages had his allowance increased. Such a system would be productive of nothing but discontent and dissatisfaction. So long as the system of deduction was continued, they had a fair answer; but now when all classes were put upon the same footing, the pensions must be placed upon the same equal scale. He objected to that clause in the Bill which required the retirement of an officer at the age of sixty-five, but not on money grounds. He would, therefore, reserve his objections to that clause for the Committee. He en-
 371
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, the same rule ought to apply to all the establishments. As there must he decision somewhere, it ought to be exercised by the Treasury.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he would propose the omission of certain words to prevent persons who had served their full time in Government Offices from being placed in a worse position, with respect to their superannuation allowance, than those persons who had been discharged in consequence of a reduction of the establishment.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he was sorry to be so troublesome, but he thought a public servant had no right to say he was sixty-five years of age, and therefore, would claim his retiring allowance. He wished to know whether this clause gave power to an official at sixty years of age to say he would claim a retiring allowance?
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that it appeared to him this clause gave an official power to retire after sixty years' service, whether he was capable or not. Such a course seemed very objectionable.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he wished for some explanation on this clause. It related to the heads of departments who had nobody above them to certify as to their having served with diligence and fidelity. He objected to the Treasury having the power of granting a retiring allowance to the heads of departments, who they might declare had not served them with diligence and fidelity.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he must again beg to ask whether the effect of the clause would be to inflict any additional charge on the public?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, the House was in a singular position with regard to this Bill. It was read a second time at twelve o'clock at night, when no one was present; he took an objection, grounded upon the total ignorance in which the House was as to the increase of expense the Bill would cause; but he was told that in going into Committee  pro formâ pro formâ 363 "That all deductions from salaries, in order to form a fund for superannuations, having been abolished, it is not expedient to add to the amount of public charge by an increase in the scale of superannuation."
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  explained that what he said was, that the communications were such as to render it improbable that any estimate could be given.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, the case of Mr. Barber had been under the consideration of the Government for some time, and no little difficulty had been experienced in deciding how to deal with it. On the one hand, a precedentought not to be laid down which might operate injuriously in other cases of an analogous nature; and, on the other hand, this particular case was, to a certain degree, taken out of the ordinary category by the fact that it had been investigated by a Select Committee of that House, who had unanimously recommended it to the special consideration of the Government. The various propositions that had been brought forward had received the attention of the Government, which had felt that the only unobjectionable mode of proceeding would be to give some recognition of the sufferings which Mr. Barber had certainly undergone. This would be attained by a grant of public money to Mr. Barber; and accordingly in the Estimates for the coming year such a sum would be included as, without pretending to compensate him for what he had endured, would still be an acknowledgment on the part of Parliament and the country that he had suffered considerably, and was, therefore, entitled to some consideration of this nature.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE , in moving that the House resolve itself into Committee on this Bill, said he thought it would save time if he gave some explanations as to its provisions. The measure had excited considerable interest in the country, and every time he came down to the House he had five or six hon. Members inquiring as to some point in the Bill while the petitions which had been presented in reference to it were very numerous, having last week been five times as
 354 employés 355 356 357 maximum maximum 358 datum 359 bonâ fide 360 361 362
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he had already stated that it was impossible to estimate the expense which this clause would impose upon the public.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, his attention had not been called to this point, but provision should be made for it, in order that the limitation now imposed by statute might not be altered.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that this clause was taken, substantially, from the Act of 1843.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  defended the clause.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, the provision of the existing law was that the Government should not be able to grant a superannuation allowance to any official under sixty-five years of age, unless he was physically disabled. The present clause merely altered that to sixty years.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : It would be as well if they were to omit this clause.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  explained that under the existing law a public servant had power to retire after sixty-five years of age, but if he retired under those
 381
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said,
 383
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he had a clause to add, that no person should be deemed to be in the civil service of the State, or entitled to superannuation allowance, unless he held his appointment direct from the Crown, or had his salary provided out of the Imperial funds.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he had some difficulty in meeting the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman, because the wording of this clause was connected with that of the 15th clause, to which the Committee had not yet arrived. But the general scope of the Bill was this: it was thought desirable that persons who had fairly discharged their duties should leave the service with good will. It would now be necessary to retire at sixty-five, and, as a compensation for this, it was thought right to permit public servants to retire at sixty. Younger men would be permitted to enter the service than formerly, namely, at years varying from eighteen to twenty-five, thus taking the average at twenty; and they would be permitted, if they wished, to retire at sixty; and it must be allowed that forty years of the best part of a man's life
 382
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  opposed the Amendment, which was negatived without a division.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he could not yet understand the Amendment.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : What is the meaning of the words, "except as hereinafter mentioned?"
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, the words were not his but those of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Devon-port, but he did not think there was any difficulty in understanding them. With regard to the question of his right hon. Friend the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) in reference to the examination of the men by the Civil Service Commissioners, he had to state that it would be necessary for the men to obtain from the Commissioners certificates as to their age, the state of their health, and other such matters as were elements in the calculation of their superannuation.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  remarked that the men alluded to would, by the provisions of the Bill, come within its scope, only that the Treasury would exercise a discretion in deciding whether they had had fixed and established employment.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  replied that those who were called supernumerary clerks were in fact to all intents and purposes established clerks, and had an organization of their own, and they would certainly come under the provisions of this Bill. With regard to the process-servers in Ireland, the case was quite different; they did not require the same qualifications for the discharge of their duties as civil servants in the public establishments; neither was the same strictness required in their case á regarded age and the length of service as in the case of the civil servants, and therefore they would not come under the provisions of this Bill. As to the Ordnance Offices he could hardly give an answer, but he did not see at that moment why the Bill would not include them.
 MR. STIRLING  said, he wished to know whether the opinion of the trustees had been taken on the terms of this reference?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : — Sir, I have only one word to say upon that which has fallen from the noble Lord with regard to the observations of my noble Friend the Member for the City of London. My noble Friend did not revert to the debate of last year. My noble Friend did not advert to the policy of Her Majesty's Government with regard to India; but my noble Friend did make observations upon that which I think must have struck with pain the mind of every man who has read that despatch. My noble Friend did make observations upon the taste—upon the feeling—I will say no more—of that reply which the noble Lord opposite thought it consistent with his duty to write to Viscount Canning in answer to that noble Lord's despatch. I cannot permit the noble Lord to escape from those remarks which my noble Friend so appropriately made, by endeavouring to revert to the discussion of last year, and to impute to my noble Friend an intention which the language of my noble Friend showed could not have been in his mind. I deeply regret that the noble Lord should have thought right, in his position as a Minister of the Crown, to have written a sneering, taunting, and ironical despatch in reply to Viscount Canning—in answer to explanations which every man must have read with admiration. I say nothing as to the concealment of these despatches for the many months during which they lay in the office of the noble Lord. At last they have come out, and I am persuaded that no man who has read them can help feeling sentiments very different from those expressed in the reply of the noble Lord.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he had to regret that his inadvertence had put the noble Lord to the trouble of asking this question more than once. The best answer he could give to it was to read an extract from a Despatch, dated 31st March, 1858, addressed to the Governor General of India by the late Court of Directors, In that despatch the Court of Directors, speaking of the property captured at Delhi, said,—
 "We fully approve of your recommendations that property taken by the troops, which is neither claimed on behalf of the State nor claimed and identified by individuals who may establish their loyalty, should be considered to be prize. We shall accordingly, as soon as we are informed by you of the necessary particulars, make application to the Crown, in the usual form, praying a Royal grant of the same as prize. … We trust that no time will be lost in sending us full particulars of the captures which we now propose to recognize as booty of war." 388
 LORD STANLEY  replied that the despatch in question was communicated for information to members of the Council, but it was sent, as previous correspondence on the same subject had been, through the Secret Committee. No reply bad yet been received, but if any such reply should arrive, he should deal with it as with others, and lay it upon the table of the House.
 LORD NAAS  said, it was the intention of the Government to introduce such a Bill.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, that the only information possessed by the Government upon this subject had been obtained from the public journals. They had received no official information of the difference stated to exist between the price
 389
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  moved that the Bill should be read a second time.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I rise, Sir, to move the Amendment of which I have given notice, and I believe I shall best consult the convenience of the House by saying as little as possible by way of preface to the arguments which I wish to urge upon their attention. I shall be the more ready to do this because I quite agree with the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer that it was the duty of Her Majesty's Ministers to propose a Bill to amend the representation of the people in this House. It might be a question whether the Ministers, upon taking office, being in a decided minority, were justified in presenting themselves to this House; it might be a question whether it was right to hold out expectations that they would lay a Reform Bill before the House; but I think there can be no doubt that, having held out those expectations, they were right in fulfilling their pledge and bringing their proposition before Parliament in the shape of a Bill. The right hon. Gentleman spoke much of the importance of this question, and I do not wish to weaken the force of what he said by attempting to add anything to it. There can be no question of graver importance to us, our children, and our posterity, than that which is now before the House. And, Sir, if it is a question of so much importance, I think it cannot be wrong to urge this House, to consider every step which they take—not to be blind to the importance of any movement which they make, and to consider well before they advance in what may turn out to be a wrong direction. In the arguments which I am about to address to the House, I am encouraged by the fact that two of the colleagues of the right hon. Gentleman—one the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole), distinguished among his colleagues for his great constitutional
 390 "Every male person of full age, and not subject to any legal incapacity, who shall have any one of the several qualifications hereinafter specified, shall he entitled to be registered as a voter, and to vote in the election of a member or members for the county, or if within the limits of a borough, then in the election of a member or members for the borough, where, in the case of qualifications arising out of lands or tenements, such lands or tenements shall be situated, and where, in all other cases, such person shall reside." 391 s.  392 "In Devonshire, Plymouth, there are 797 freeholders; in Glocestershire, Stroud, 1,334; is Kent, Canterbury 583, Dover 1,037; in Lancashire, Liverpool, 3,300, Manchester 3,043; in Middlesex, Tower Hamlets, 3,064; in Northumberland, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, 1,687; in Staffordshire, Wolverhampton, 2,333; in Warwickshire, Birmingham, 1,910; in Yorkshire, Bradford 2,194, Leeds 3,089, Sheffield 1,991." s. 393 394 395 "I beg that your Lordships will not lose sight of this, that from the earliest periods of the Parliamentary history of this country there have been two great divisions of constituencies, and it is upon due weight being given to each of these two that the whole balance of the constitution in the House of Commons depends." "That distinction is as old as the earliest period of our history. It is not a new distinction introduced at the time of the Reform Bill; but it is a distinction which at the time of the Reform Bill in 1831 and 1832 was recognized, and to a certain extent was even extended; because one of the main alterations with regard to the franchise, in addition to extending it beyond the corporations, which had in some boroughs usurped the place of the inhabitants at large, was that it was given to a great mass of rated householders; and, at the same time, in order to draw more clearly the distinction between the two classes of representation, the non-resident freemen were disfranchised in regard to boroughs; while residence was not considered necessary with regard to the county franchise. Property was there made the basis of representation, number and residence were the basis of representation with regard to boroughs.… I do trust that the Government in the measures they are about to introduce will not attempt to break down this old, well-founded, and most important distinction. If they do so for the purpose of removing any apparent anomaly, and diminishing the inequality of numbers, or of introducing any fanciful regularity, they will entail much more serious consequences in the total alteration and subversion of the principles of the representation of this country, and the alteration of the distribution of powers, and they will derive no advantage from any possible establishment of a system apparently more symmetrical, but not containing the elements of real power and real convenience which are comprised in the present system, and which form one of the main balances of the constitution." 396 397 398 399 400 401 402 s.  403 Blackstone's Commentaries, "Land comprehends all things of a permanent, substantial nature, being a word of a very extensive signification, as will presently appear more at large. 'Tenement' is a word of still greater extent, and though in its vulgar acceptation it is only applied to houses and other buildings, yet in its original, proper, and legal sense it signifies everything that may be holden, provided it he of a permanent nature, whether it be of a substantial and sensible, or of an unsubstantial, ideal kind. Thus  liberum tenementum, Black-stone, 404 405
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, in the month of April, 1835, a Resolution was moved by a noble Lord, then and now a distinguished Member of this House, to the effect "That no settlement of the Irish tithe question would be satisfactory that did not appropriate to the purposes of general education
 406 Cries of 407 408 409 410 Cries of 411 s. 412 s. s. 413 414 Cries of "Who cares," he asks, "to give votes to the selfish, the ignorant, the apathetic? Not more than one man in 100 in this country gives time, money, serious thought, or takes an earnest part in public affairs. Why should any one die of exhaustion in endeavouring to enfranchise so many as comprise a mere apathetic mob, who put no value on a vote? At the same time many would work hard and long that even a limited number of men, intelligent and earnest, who desire to take part in securing the well-being of their country, should be enabled to do so. Now, any mere mechanical suffrage founded on rating, or rent, or occupation, will, as the existing suffrage does, include many utterly worthless persons, and exclude
 415 416 417 418 419 s.  420 s.  s. 421 422 423 424
 MR. H. G. STURT  said, he rose as a county Member, and as a representative of a large agricultural constituency, to endeavour to express briefly and clearly, so far as it lay in his power, the opinions which he entertained of the measure before the House. He certainly rejoiced to find that the noble Earl at the head of Her Majesty's Government had had the moral courage to come forward and grapple with this question of Parliamentary Reform, a subject which had been hanging over the heads of the people for so many years; but he regretted that the noble Earl did not go a little further, and through his representatives in that House lay a Bill
 425 426 427 428 sine quâ non
 VISCOUNT BURY  said, he must congratulate Her Majesty's Government on the accession to their ranks of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Worcestershire. He thought it was Mr. Fox who, contesting an election on one occasion, was told by one of his constituents, "I admire your sentiments, but hang your principles." He would make the same remark to the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken. "I admire your sentiments and the able speech by which you have conveyed them to the House, but I must dissent from the conclusion which you draw from them." He hoped to be able, in a few plain words, to place before the
 429 430 431 432 pro tanto tiers etat régime, 433
 MR. KER SEYMER  said, when they were considering a Bill to amend the representation of the people, the first question they ought to ask themselves was this,—what end did they propose to themselves by popular representation, and how far did our representative institutions answer that end? We in England desired good laws and good government. We desired security for those good laws and for that good government, and we believe that that security was best attained by representative institutions; but we knew nothing of the "rights of man." Let the House go back for a moment to the state of affairs at the time of the old Reform Bill. The great centres of manufacturing industry, Birmingham, Manchester, Leeds, Sheffield, had no Members; and other largo towns which had Members were very often represented by close corporations, which could not in any way be said to represent the opinions or the interests of those towns. Seats in that House were openly bought and sold. All attempts to remedy that state of things had been pertinaciously resisted. A great man, who afterwards became a wiser politician, declared that no Reform was necessary. It was under those circumstances that the Reform Bill was brought forward, and, speaking from the Ministerial side of the House, he had no hesitation in saying that he regarded it as a great and success-
 434 435 436 437 438 Economist, 439 440 441 quasi 442
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he hoped for the indulgence of the House while for the first time he took a brief part in one of its debates. He wished he knew its Members sufficiently well to be able to distinguish between the two hon. Members from Dorsetshire, with one of whom he agreed, whilst from the other he differed, He entirely sympathized in the sentiments of the hon. Member for Dorsetshire who first addressed the House, though he differed with him in his conclusions. He had had an opportunity, from an intimate connection with them for some years, of forming an estimate of the working classes of this country, and he thought that the way in which they had exerted themselves to improve themselves and their social position, and the praises that had been bestowed upon them by eminent public men, had produced a fixed impression in their minds that whenever a reconstruction of the constitution took place they should be admitted to their fair share in the extension of the suffrage. Neither could he see that the Legislature could, without danger, exclude them. He could not believe in any new Reform Bill which excluded the most popular element in the constitution, more particularly at a time when the people were looking for a larger infusion of opinion in their favour in that House. He believed the statistics of savings' banks would show that the working classes did not form the largest portion of those who invested their money in them, but that there was a large class of them who invested their savings in benefit and building societies, and he believed that if the extension of the franchise
 443 444
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he rose to address the House under circumstances of some difficulty. Had he in the early part of the evening trusted to his ears rather than his eyes, he should have thought that some mighty political change had taken place, or that he had forgotten his place and his principles, for he heard the noble Lord opposite (Lord John Russell) defending the franchise of the freeholder on the ground of prescriptive right. He thoroughly agreed with him, but he could not forget that only four or five years ago the same noble Lord proposed to abolish at one fell swoop the rights of several thousands of freemen who had equally prescriptive claims with the freeholder. He knew well that whether he was freeman or freeholder, every such elector had a pride in the thought that he was born to a vote for the election of a Member of Parliament, and that each would be unwilling to abandon it. Almost immediately afterwards he heard an hon. Member (Mr. Sturt) in terms more witty than discreet, abuse the Government behind which he sat for not having made an indiscriminate enfranchisement of the working classes. Upon that point, however, he would have a word or two to say afterwards; but he owned it had always appeared to him a matter of difficulty how the present Government, with the principles they professed, would be able in a Reform Bill to satisfy hon. Gentlemen on the Opposition side of the House without, at the same time, alarming their supporters on their own. But now that the Government had produced their measure he gave them credit for having acted up to the principles on which they took office. They had come into power prepared to meet this question, they had met it; they had laid their measures fully and fairly before the country and were prepared to discuss them. He therefore claimed on their behalf from all candid men the credit and praise to which they were entitled for their manly and straightforward conduct. But as he could not regard the Bill either as quite so democratic as some hon. Gentleman supposed,
 445 "Emollit mores nee sinit esse feros." 446 A laugh feros, malos, 447 448 449
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : I cannot congratulate the Government upon the kind of support which they have received from those hon. Members who have spoken in favour of the Bill. Both the hon. Member for Dorset and the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down have declared that they found serious and grievous faults in the main enactments of the Bill, and they have argued in favour of provisions which are utterly inconsistent with the view which the noble Lord (Lord Stanley) stated so clearly as to the uniformity of franchise, and with what my noble Friend (Lord John Russell) has described as the main principle of the Bill, namely, identity of franchise in towns and counties. Both the hon. Gentlemen who have spoken are in favour of lowering the borough franchise; but that is quite inconsistent with that identity of franchise, contained in the first clause of the Bill, which the Chancellor of the Exchequer told us in opening this measure to the House contained the great principle of the measure. The noble Lord seemed to think that to carry such a Resolution as that proposed by my noble Friend would be inconsistent with the passing of any Reform Bill at all in the present Session; but I really do not see the impossibility which he anticipates. Indeed, I do not see why the present Government should not carry an amended measure if they choose to do so, believing, as I do, that a large majority of this House are desirous of coming to some reasonable settlement of this question in the present Session of Parliament. The noble Lord, however, gives us no hope of any amended Bill. He would regard the adoption of the Resolution as an expression of want of confidence; and he says that he is prepared to accept it as such, and submit to the usual consequences of such a Motion being carried. The noble Lord defends every particle of the Bill—the principle of identity of franchise and all the consequences that flow from it; but I confess I, for one, consider that principle is so objectionable that I would infinitely prefer no Bill at all to the one now before us. The noble Lord says, that he objects to electoral districts; but does not identity of franchise lead at once to electoral districts? He says he is prepared to maintain small boroughs; but with identity of franchise in the county of Sussex and the borough of Arundel how
 450 451 452 453 454 455 s. s. s.  456
 *MR. HORSMAN : Sir, the noble Lord who has moved this Amendment stated that there could be no question of grayer importance to us, our children, and our posterity than the one now before us. Sir, it is my sense of that gravity, so forcibly described by the noble Lord, which emboldens me now to give expression to opinions which, though it gives me pain to differ from many of my Friends around me, I do hold so strongly, that I cannot incur the responsibility of concealing or suppressing them. I have great doubts as to the expediency of the course proposed by the noble Lord, and those doubts are much increased by the speech of the right hon. Member for Halifax. 457 458 459 460 Cries of 461 462 463 464 s. s. 465 466 467 468
 MR. A. MILLS  said, that one result of the noble Lord's Amendment would be to compel many to speak their sentiments who
 469 470
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, he must congratulate Her Majesty's Government upon the supporter whom they had found on that side of the House. After the very lukewarm support which they had received from their friends, it must have been satisfactory to them to find upon the opposite benches a right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Horsman), never very famous for agreeing with his friends, who had found it possible to agree with them. Great indignation was expressed at the noble Lord having proceeded by way of Resolution, which indignation arose, he thought, from the recollection of the Resolution of February of last year, and a fear lest it might lead to similar consequences, and result in the displacement of a Ministry. Parliamentary Reform had become a matter of necessity. Successive Ministers had sanctioned the opinion that something must be done. What they had to answer was the great and important question. What did they want? He believed that no Reform would be satisfactory to the country unless it contained two important ingredients—a largo extension of the franchise and a redistribution of seats. He did not go in the latter respect as far as the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright). He did not agree in his schedules. He believed that to abolish all the small boroughs would be a great misfortune; but it was impossible not to recognize the fact, that during the last twenty-five years many small towns had become large ones, and many boroughs had become insignificant places. With regard to the extension of the franchise they ought to be able to show some reason for extending it, and some reason for stopping at a particular point, The £10 franchise in counties, he thought, must be introduced; first, because the £10 householders in boroughs had now been tried and proved worthy of the franchise; and, secondly, because the House of Commons
 471 472 473
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he would move the adjournment of the debate. ["No, no!"] Well, as it did not seem to be the wish of the House to adjourn the debate, he should proceed. As he had not heard any hon. Member enter into a vindication of the ministerial proposition for taking away the second vote in the case of freeholders in boroughs, he should briefly call the attention of the House to the position in which the counties stood in respect of the boroughs in regard to the franchise. It appeared clear to him that there was at present no equality in the representation of the counties and boroughs. The rural population did not enjoy that consideration in the apportionment of seats which their numbers and wealth deserved. If they enfranchised the £10 householder in counties they immediately infused into the rural populations an enormous element, the sympathies of which were exclusively with towns. The populations ceased, in fact, to be rural. Some counterpoise must be given, and how was it to be obtained except by taking away a franchise which was utterly anomalous and without principle? He did not think that the disproportion between the representation of counties and that of boroughs had been sufficiently considered by gentlemen who had spoken throughout the country on the subject of Reform. The property in Schedules A, B, D, for counties, as appeared by the official Returns recently laid before the House, was £117,000,000; for boroughs, £101,000,000. The proportion of the representation was as 159 to 339. If they adopted the property qualification as a standard, the representation should be as 262 to 234; and thus 103 Members ought to be taken from the boroughs and given to the counties. Taking the Schedule A alone, it would be necessary, in order to redress the inequalities of the representation, to transfer 130 Members from the boroughs to the counties. Taking Schedules B and D as the standard, the number of Members to be transferred from the towns to the counties would be 134; taking population, it would be 134; taking electors, which was the weakest
 477 478 479 480 Cries of Times "What about John Bright?—Mr. Foster: I believe it will be found that John Bright and Lord John Russell will sail in the same boat.—Mr. Duignan: Who would have brought on this measure of Reform but for John Bright?—Mr. Foster: I can assure my friend Mr. Duignan that I should be the last person to deprive John Bright of the credit to which he is entitled. [A voice: 'Three cheers for him, then. The appeal was not responded to.] But if my friend will only wait till next week he will see that there is perfect agreement between John Bright and Lord John Russell. I may say that John Bright fully concurs in the confidence which Reformers entertain in Lord John Russell. [A voice: 'Let John Bright form a Ministry.'— Laughter 481
 MR. WILSON  moved the Adjournment of the Debate.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought that it would be convenient that the debate should proceed continuously, and therefore he would suggest that it should be adjourned until the next day. Of course he was in the hands of hon. Members who had notices of Motions for that day. He had looked through the paper, and though those notices were of an interesting, yet he did not think that they were of an urgent character. He hoped that hon. Members would accede to the course: which he suggested.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  asked for leave to introduce a Bill to Amend the Lunacy Regulation Act (1853). The object of the measure he stated to be to secure a more efficacious inspection of those unfortunate persons who were found to be lunatics by inquisition. He might add that he proposed to refer the Bill to the same
 483
 MR. SALISBURY  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for India whether the despatch No. 5, 1858, dated the 9th December, had been submitted to the Indian Council for consideration before its transmission to Lord Canning; also, if any reply has been received from Lord Canning to the despatch in question; and whether the Government are prepared to lay such reply on the table of the House?
 MAJOR EDWARDS  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether the announcement that he made last Session, that the Peruvian Government had arranged that the price of Guano should be uniform here and in the United States, had been justified by the result; and, if not, what steps Her Majesty's Government proposed to take.
 MR. ENNIS  said, he would beg to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland if it be his intention to introduce a Bill during the present Session to amend the Act 7 & 8  Vict.
 VISCOUNT BURY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to distribute the prize money taken at Delhi and Lucknow to the troops present on those occasions.
 LORD STANLEY  said, in reply, that he had stated on the previous day that the Despatch in question was sent out in the Secret Department; that was to say, it was sent upon the responsibility of the Secretary of State alone. It was communicated to the Council for information; that was to say it was shown to the Members of the Council before it was sent out, but it was not submitted to them for consideration, nor did they express any opinion upon it.
 MR. WILSON  said, that in rising to address the House upon that occasion, he owed them some apology for venturing to interfere in a question of a class with which he very seldom meddled. But differing as he did from many of the Friends with whom he usually acted, and the course which the Government pursued yesterday having materially altered his view, and therefore he felt he should not give his vote without expressing to the House the grounds upon which that vote would be given. He could assure the right hon. Member for Stroud (Mr. Horsman) that neither he nor any one else in that House could feel more deeply than he did the responsibility which rested on every Member of the House on that occasion. He had regarded this question for a long time past as one which it was desirable should be settled as speedily as possible; and he could only say he should have been most happy had the Government introduced a
 532 533 534 535 536 537 538 539 540 Cries of "True it is we are told that the adoption of the Resolution is not necessarily fatal to the Bill, and that even if the Resolution be carried the Bill may be brought to a second reading." "I say, then, I am expressing the feelings of my colleagues and those who support the measure, when I say that the adoption of the Resolution of the noble Lord must necessarily be fatal to the Bill." 541 s. 542
 SIR E. BULWER LYTTON : * 543 544 545 546 547 s. 548 549 550 551 "Pleased to the last he crops his flowery food, "And licks the hand just raised to shed his blood." 552 553 554 555 556 557 558 559
 MR. J. H. PHILIPPS  said, that in accordance with the reluctance he had always felt to affirm anything like an abstract Resolution, he should now vote, with a perfect confidence that he was voting rightly, against the Amendment of the noble Lord. The disfranchisement of freeholders in towns was much objected to; he did not think the proposition was the most judicious that could have been made, but the term "disfranchisement" was not appropriate to the case — the more proper term was a "transference." Let him cite his own case. He was himself one of those hundred thousand persons whose champion the noble Lord and the hon. Member for Dorsetshire professed to be, and they might think him very ungrateful when he said that as far as he was concerned he was not obliged for their advocacy. Although the greater part of his property was in Wales, he had a small freehold in the heart of the City of London, and he must say that of all the franchises and rights he possessed there was none upon which he set a lower value than the privilege of voting for the county of Middlesex. Certainly his interests, as far as London was concerned, were much more mixed up with the City than with the county, and if he had any grievance to complain of he would apply to the City Members rather than the representatives for the county; and, be sides, he thought that a farmer at Hendon or at Harrow might with justice complain of his vote being neutralized by that of a person coming from the City. Therefore, while he regretted that the Government had meddled with this subject, because it formed an admirable stone for the Opposition to pelt with, still the language used against it was of the most aggravated description, for, let hon. Members opposite say what they would, there was an enormous inequality between the representation of counties and towns. According to some Returns moved for by the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) the rateable property in counties was £60,000,000 while the rateable property in towns was £40,000,000. The population in the counties was 11,000,000, the population in
 565 566 "Justice and policy require that a share in power, and contributions to power, should be proportionate to each other."
 MR. FORSTER  said, he should not have ventured to address the House were it not for the wrong interpretation which the noble Lord the Member for Stamford (Lord R. Cecil) had put upon the speech which he made to his constituents at Walsall. As to the degradation of being a "whip," he should leave to the hon. Member for Wells (Sir William Hayter) and the hon. and gallant Member for the county of Dublin (Captain Taylor) to settle that between them; but he thought that the meaning of what he said was sufficiently clear to escape misrepresentation. He spoke of it being a matter of notoriety that there was a perfect agreement between the noble Lord and the hon. Member for Birmingham as to the manner in which the Government Bill should be met, and he added that they would both be found sailing in the same boat—by which he of course meant voting in the same lobby. When the noble Lord
 567
 MR. BANKS STANHOPE  said, the Resolution of the noble Lord placed Members in this curious predicament, that unless they explained their votes they could hardly vote either for or against the Resolution without exposing their opinions to misconstruction. He hoped, therefore, that the House would permit him shortly to express his opinion upon the Bill, and upon the general subject of reform. There were two points in it which especially concerned county Members, the 40 s. 568 569 570
 MR. DODSON  said, that only two hon. Members who had spoken to-night on the Government side had expressed admiration of the Bill; but their praise was of that diluted kind which was generally supposed to carry with it rather more of condemnation than approval. The Opposition had been asked how they could vote against it when they did not know what measure was to succeed it. His answer to that was a plain one: the Bill was a bad one, and he should vote against it; and if the one that succeeded it was no better, he should treat it in the same way. They were told alternately that the Amendment meant nothing, and everything; that it was a dextrous and a clumsy move; that it would carry the noble Lord who had moved it to power, and that it would sink him to a still lower depth. He would say nothing as to what its effect would be in that direction; but this he would say, that the Resolution presented a clear and simple issue for the decision of the House. To his mind the two points involved in it were so important that they ought to be affirmed without delay; and even if the Bill were allowed to be read a second time it should only be done after an express declaration on the part of the House that the county franchise, as affecting the 40s. freeholders, should not be interfered with, and that the right of suffrage in towns should be extended further than was contemplated by the
 571 572
 MR. W. VANSITTART  said that, with reference to his own feelings, and in justice to the petition which he presented yesterday, numerously signed by his friends and supporters at Windsor, he would rather not give a silent vote upon the present occasion. He had listened very attentively to the speech delivered by the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, in the hope of hearing some justification of the very mischievous Amendment he had moved to this momentous national question, which Her Majesty's Ministers, evidently regarding it as a lapsed legacy bequeathed to them by past effete Governments, had had the manliness to take up and bring under the consideration of that House. He could not allow his better judgment to be entrapped by the noble Lord's specious arguments and plausible sophistries, for it struck him that the noble Lord, still smarting under the recollection of his unsuccessful efforts to pass a measure of Parliamentary reform in 1854, was now anxious to prevent his opponents, and more particularly a Conservative Government, from carrying one. What the House had to do, was to consider the propositions embodied in this Bill as a whole, and not to reject it, or withhold their consent to its going into Committee, simply because some of its provisions might be objectionable. Many hon. Members professing extreme Radical opinions, and over whom the noble Lord was so anxious to preside as their acknowledged leader, clung with the greatest tenacity to the long-cherished desire of arraying town against country, by transferring all political power! from education, wealth, and social position to the tender mercies of one class which had hitherto been represented by its rulers, its leaders, and its paymasters. These gentlemen would carry their injustice to such a degree as to destroy at one fell swoop eighty-six boroughs from among our rural market towns, coolly consigning to perdition 130 Members, without a chance
 573 "I was not the product of a day, But the well-seasoned fruit of wisp delay." 574
 MR. F. CROSSLEY  said, it had been stated that Bill after Bill had been introduced on this subject and withdrawn, and that the present was the only measure since 1832 that had been proposed for a second reading. Now, he thought it possible for the present measure to be read a second time, and even to pass into law, and yet leave the question unsettled. Who was it that called for Reform? Was it the higher or the middle classes? He thought not. It was that class who were left out of consideration in the Bill of 1832—the working classes. The noble Lord the Minister for India had said it was necessary to define who was a work-
 575 576 s. 577
 MR. KNIGHTLEY  said, the most important clause in the Bill, that of giving the right of voting to the £10 occupiers in counties, resembles the gold and silver shield in the fable—it presented a totally different aspect when viewed from opposite sides of the House; for instance, when the noble Lord the Member for the City was in office in 1851, he resigned the post of First Minister of the Crown, because he was unable successfully to resist the introduction of that measure; yet in 1857, and again in 1858, when he was in opposition to the late and to the present Government, he strenuously supported the very measure he had before opposed. Then, again, the noble Viscount the Member for Tiverton; in 1857 he made an able speech in opposition to that measure; yet in 1858, when he had crossed over the House, both spoke and voted for it, and the whole of the late Government, with a subordination or over unanimity which was wonderful, gave in one short year two diametrically different votes on precisely the same subject. He had no sort of objection to extension of the franchise to the £10 occupiers, as
 578 579 "I have only one tiling more to say with regard to there presentation of England. In all those new towns to which we propose to give the right of sending Members to Parliament, all persons who are by their property entitled to vote, are to be
 580 Hansard, "The plan proposed went to restore to the landed interest that influence which he thought indispensable to the safety and the prosperity of the country, by giving fifty-five Members to the counties —and still further, by conferring votes on copyholders, and not permitting those who had votes for towns to enjoy the same privilege in counties. He looked, indeed, on the increase of the Members for counties as the surest and most stable basis of representation; for, without meaning to disparage the manufacturing or commercial interests, he must say that he considered the soil to be the country itself."—[3  Hansard, 581
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT :—I am almost lost, Sir, in the speeches which I have heard from the different sides of this House during this discussion. If one were blinded it would be difficult to imagine that the orations which have been delivered from that (the Ministerial) side of the House had not been spoken on this side, or  vice versâ. 582 583 584 585 586 587 588 minimum 589 590 591 s. s. amour propre, 592 593 "A variety of rights of suffrage is the first principle of the English representation, … An uniform qualification, in short, must be so high as to exclude true popular election, or so low as to
 594 595 596 597 598
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL : If I were to say, Sir, of the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London that it tends to confuse and embarrass the House as to the issue upon which it is to decide, I should perhaps only be saying that the Amendment accomplishes the object for which it was designed. But that it has this effect, a more signal proof could not be given than the speech of the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down. If the question which you, Sir, have put from the chair means anything, it means this—that the House of Commons thinks it expedient to pass by and supersede the question of the second reading of this Bill in order to affirm an abstract Resolution upon two isolated provisions of the measure. The right hon. Gentleman is going to vote for the Amendment; but what has been his argument? We have heard from him a very interesting treatise—everything which falls from the right hon. Gentleman is interesting—upon the precise manner in which you ought to reply to an invitation to a ballot dinner; upon the still stronger terms in which you ought to refuse to hear high mass; upon the principles of party government; upon the history of the Bill of the hon. Member for Surrey (Mr. Locke King); upon the principle of uniformity which he says is contained in this Bill; and upon the advantages which he thinks are to be derived from the existence of small boroughs: but not until the close of the speech of the right hon. Gentleman did we hear one single argument why all this might not have been said, and said just as well, upon the second reading of the Bill, or why the ordinary forms of the House should in this case be departed from. And then, when we come at last to know why the right hon. Gentleman was about to vote for the Amendment, what was his reason? He wishes us to reject the Bill and not to go into Committee; and he wishes to inform the country at large of the grounds upon which he rejects it. The right hon. Gentleman, who throughout his speech deprecated the departure from established practice, is about to do that for which no single precedent can be found in our Parliamentary history—he means to vote in such a way as not only to reject the Bill, but to show by the Motion made the reasons for rejecting it. But the chief objection of the right hon. Gentleman is to the principle of uniformity. He therefore wishes to inform the country that it
 600 601 s 602 s s 603 604 605 606 607 608 609 "Gentlemen may say, and with truth, that although the Bill is a different one, and though it does not propose an assimilation of the borough and county franchise, yet the manner in which the blanks are filled up will attain that object. No doubt that is the state of the case, but those who, like myself, adhere to the opinion that it is undesirable and objectionable to assimilate the be-rough and the county franchise"—[May do what?] —"may vote for the second reading, with the intention of proposing alterations in the franchise that is intended to be established for county voters." "And therefore, any one who contemplated a reduction in the rate of the county franchise may well and consistently vote for the second reading, reserving to himself full liberty of proposing in Committee the particular amount of qualification which he may think is best." 610 611 612 613 614 s 615 616 617 "He felt it to be his duty to attend there that day in order that he might hear the sentiments of that great assemblage, for the guidance of his conduct in Parliament. He had done all in his power to promote the extension of the franchise, and he bad hoped that Lord John Russell, or some other person, would have done them the justice of laying upon the table of the House a measure to supplant the one under discussion, in order that the Liberal party might see what they would be called upon to support when the Government scheme had been rejected. Such a course would
 618 619
 MR. FORSTER  said, that he had already explained that what he had said on the occasion to which the hon., and learned Gentleman alluded was that it was matter of common notoriety that the noble Lord the Member for Birmingham—he meant the noble Lord the Member for London — and the hon. Gentleman the Member for Birmingham were perfectly agreed as to the course to be taken with regard to the Bill under discussion; and that he had perhaps used the phrase that they would be found "sailing in the same boat," the translation of which was that upon a division they would be found in the same lobby. He had also stated, entirely on his own responsibility, that he believed the hon. Member for Birmingham participated in those feelings of confidence which at the present moment advanced Liberals were disposed to extend to the noble Lord the Member for the City of London.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL : I am obliged to the hon. Gentleman for the explanation which he has just given us, because I could hardly believe that the report of his observations which I quoted was correct. It is now, however, clear that the expressions which are attributed to him by the newspapers have been most accurately recorded. I now beg to repeat the question:—Have the noble Lord the Member for London and the hon. Member for Birmingham so completely agreed as to the course which they are to pursue as that they are to "row in the same boat," which interpreted means, it appears, that they are to be in the same lobby when a division is taken on this Amendment? If the answer should be in the affirmative then I should wish to learn upon what principle their compact is founded? Does it or does it not include the question of vote by ballot? If it does include that question, then I should like to know how hon. Gentlemen opposite who sit above the gangway can concur with the noble Lord in the course which he is taking? If, upon the other hand, it does not include the ballot, how, let me ask, are those hon. Gentlemen prepared to act who have told their constituents that any extension of the suffrage unaccompanied by the ballot would be a curse rather than a blessing? Will they vote for the Amendment of the noble Lord? 620 621 622 "Strong were his hopes his rival to remove; With blandishments to gain the public love; To head the faction while their zeal was hot, And popularly prosecute the plot." 623
 MR. WILSON  offered some explanation as to his remarks on the fluctuating nature of the franchise of the freeholders in boroughs which were not understood in the gallery amid the impatience of the House.
 LORD STANLEY : No protest was ever made against it.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for India, if his despatch to the Governor General of India, dated the 9th day of December, 1858 (which has lately been presented to the House) was sent under the 27th section of the Act for the better Government of India (21 & 22  Viet
 LORD STANLEY  said the former correspondence having passed in the Secret Department, this Despatch, as he had already stated, had also been sent out in the same Department.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury whether any alteration has been made in the charges or other arrangements of the Inland Book Post; and when the alteration will take place by which an additional penny will be charged for the transit through Egypt of newspapers sent  viâ
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  hoped the hon. Baronet would not persevere with his Motion, on the understanding that the Chan-
 531
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, the hon. Member for North Warwickshire was not in the House, as he could not imagine that this question would be brought on to-night.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  reminded the hon. Baronet, that Gentlemen whose Motions had the precedence of his had given way for the discussion on the Reform Bill; and he was sure from the well-known courtesy of the hon. Baronet, that he would not stand between the House and this subject. If he allowed the debate to proceed, he should be happy on some future day, as he had already done, to afford him facilities for proceeding with his Bill.
 MR. SALISBURY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India if the Despatch No. 5, 1858, dated the 9th December, having been submitted to the Indian Council for consideration before its transmission to Lord Canning, had met with the sanction and approval of that body or otherwise?
 MR. SALISBURY : Did not the Council protest against the Despatch before it was sent out?
 COLONEL FORESTER  brought up the Queen's Answer to the Address presented for a Commission to inquire into the laws and Customs of Jersey.
 MR. MONCREIFF  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the law of Scot-
 530
 MR. LAURIE  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty whether there is likely to be a further distribution of the order of the Medjidie to the Naval Officers, and if those whose names have been inadvertently omitted are to be furnished with them.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  moved that the House resolve itself into Committee on the Church Rate question.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  felt himself placed in some little difficulty. The question of Reform was rather of a speculative kind, and men of advanced opinions did not seem to agree very well with respect to it. He was anxious, therefore, that the House should make some progress in this question of church rates, which was a practical subject. He should also like to know what wore the opinions of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate), and the noble Lord the Member for Stamford (Lord R. Cecil), both of whom had Amendments to propose, which perhaps the House might be inclined to adopt. If both sides of the House insisted that he should give way, he would not persevere, on the understanding that the right hon. Gentleman would do his best to get him another day, but he would not give up his position at the request of one side of the House only.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  then agreed to postpone his Motion.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was not aware that it was the intention of the Turkish Government to issue any more medals of the order in question among the Officers of Her Majesty's Navy. The medals previously issued by the Sultan's Government were distributed by the late Board of Admiralty, and he had every reason to believe that, though their number was limited, they had been awarded with fairness, and with as great a regard as was possible to the claims of those entitled to receive them.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that no alteration whatever had been made in the arrangements of the Inland Book Post, but curious statements had appeared in the newspapers from time to time to that effect. Most certainly, nothing had been done to restrict the circulation. With reference to the second question of the hon. Gentleman he had to state that the only alteration which was in contemplation would take place on the 1st January next: and it would have no effect on newspapers going through France, because the postage was already deemed sufficient; nor would it have any effect on newspapers sent round the Cape. But, as the Pasha of Egypt had come to the determination to charge a rather higher sum for papers sent through his territory, it would be necessary for the Government to make a corresponding increase of postage.
 MR. E. ELLICE  (St. Andrew's) said, that having taken a prominent part in the discussions on this question for eight years, he wished to offer a few remarks. He believed that the good people of Edinburgh desired to relieve themselves at the expense of the Consolidated Fund. Four or five Bills had been presented to the House, all of which were applications to the Chancellor of the Exchequer to supply means for relieving the tax-payers of Edinburgh from payments which they thought were rather unjustly extracted from them. He should vote for the second reading of the Bill before the House, inasmuch as there was no such proposition involved in it; and he hoped the Lord Advocate, if he should succeed in defeating the Bill, would not have recourse to the old expedient of applying the public funds to relieve the objections of individual tax-payers. He only threw in these few words in order to put the Chancellor of the Exchequer on his guard, that whenever Bills came from the north they were generally attended with such an application for the public money.
 LORD NAAS  said, he could assure the hon. Gentleman and the House that there was no indisposition whatever on the part of the Government to declare their opinion on the proposal contained in the Bill; but he would remnd the House that it was not until a quarter to five o'clock that his hon. Friend had risen to make his statement on the second reading of the Bill; that no statement was made upon its introduction, and that the first word which had been uttered in its favour was that very afternoon. Subsequently an hon. Gentleman moved, as an Amendment, that it should be read a second time that day six months; and he believed it was no unusual occurrence for the Government to refrain from expressing their opinion immediately on the mover of an Amendment sitting down. He put it to the House, then, whether at twenty minutes to six o'clock, with but five minutes left before the Adjournment of the debate would be put from the Chair, it was possible to discuss the Bill in a satisfactory manner. He did not wish to conceal his opinion in the least degree. He thought the matter was one that deserved consideration. The question with which the Bill dealt was one, he readily acknowledged, which ought to be settled; but the way in which it was now proposed to settle it was not the right way; and he feared that if this Bill were passed into a law, the result would be to create still more ill-feeling, acrimony, and dissension than now existed, and increase to an enormous extent the very evils they desired to remedy. At the same time, he wished it to be un-
 677
 MR. WHITE SIDE  could assure the hon. Member for Dovor (Mr. Osborne) that the Government had no desire to hide their opinion upon this subject, though the hon. Member was scarcely justified in assuming the tone he did when he said to them, "Why do you presume to be silent when I desire you to speak?" He did not understand that Mr. Justice Keogh differed substantially from the opinion which had been pronounced by his learned Colleague on the bench; but if those learned persons differed upon the law or the application of the law to the facts, that was reason sufficient of itself why the question should be fully and maturely considered. So far as the present measure was concerned, he believed that if it were agreed to the result would be to increase instead of diminish confusion in litigation. In answer to the question of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. J. D. FitzGerald), he did not believe there was such a clause as that to which the hon. Member referred in the Bill for the amendment of the Irish Poor Law, which had been introduced in his (Mr. Whiteside's) absence from the House. At all events, that Bill would be shortly printed, and the hon. Member would then be able to see what its contents were.
 LORD ELCHO : Sir, one word will explain the vote I intend to give on this question. I am one of those who think it desirable that this question should be settled satisfactorily. It is a question that has long occupied men's minds in Edinburgh, and which has led to great heart burnings and much discontent. I think, therefore, it is for the interest of the people of the Scotch metropolis and of the Church generally that this question should be settled in a satisfactory manner. I fully believe in the conscientious scruples of the hon. Member for Edinburgh; I fully believe that he rests his objection to the payment of these taxes on principle, and that he is anxious to have the question settled. But the question to consider now is, how can it be settled on fair and reasonable grounds—but I confess that in the Bill brought in by the hon. Member for Edinburgh, I cannot see any such just or amicable settlement. The Government, speak-
 665 in to
 MR. F. SCOTT : In the few observations I am about to make, I shall not be led into the different details with regard to the history of the annuity tax, or to the
 658 659 660 ad nauseam, 661 662 663 664
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  seconded the Motion, for he believed the Bill would effect a wise and just settlement of a question which, if not speedily adjusted, bade fair to destroy the present harmonious working of the great majority of the Irish Poor Law Boards, and to divide into two antagonistic religious parties men who had hitherto acted cordially together for many years past, who had learnt to respect and esteem each other, and to exhibit that mutual forbearance which was essential for the proper administration of the Poor Law in Ireland. In the north of Ireland it might be assumed that the parents of every deserted child
 674
 MR. BLACK  said, that seeing that the House was impatient, he would not take up their time for more than a minute or two. He begged, however, to remind them that at the opening of the debate he had not made a long speech, although he was fully prepared to do so, and to show that this annuity tax was regarded as an intolerable burden, that it was contrary to the principles of religious liberty, that it was unjustly saddled on the inhabitants of Edinburgh, that it had led to nothing but tumult and riot and all kinds of confusion in the city, that it was injurious, not only to religion and morals, but to the Church of Scotland itself. Pew persons had inquired into the question as much as he had done. He had searched diligently in every quarter in order to ascertain whether he could find any legitimate substitute for the tax that was likely to be received by this House. He knew very well the Bill to be brought in by the Lord Advocate would trench upon some of the funds of the Chancellor of the Exchequer; and he believed that, though the ministers of Edinburgh were exceedingly anxious to get rid of the tax, their longing eyes were towards
 672
 MR. BLACK  moved the second reading of the Bill, saying that he would reserve what he had to say in its favour until his reply.
 MR. A. STEUART  said, although he had on the previous occasion voted in favour of the abolition of the tax he should not vote for the second reading of this Bill. He believed that neither the Government, nor the hon. Member for Stirlingshire, had shown any indisposition to meet this subject in a fair and conciliatory spirit, and he considered that it was not a question which ought to be settled on the plan suggested by the hon. Member for Stroud (Mr. Horsman) but was one which ought to be dealt with on the responsibility of the Executive Government. If they admitted the voluntary principle only for the support of the church, in respect to the chief town of Scotland, he could not support the measure, and he had voted for it on a former occasion merely in order that some amicable settlement might be arrived at. The House would remember that when the proposition was made by the right hon. Member for Cambridge University to settle a similar question in England, no disposition was shown on the part of the Opposition to listen to the compromise which was offered to them, and he did not see why, believing that if this question were left entirely in the hands of Government it would be satisfactorily settled, he should be called upon to support the second reading of this Bill.
 MR. COWAN , in the first place begged to assure the hon. Member for Elginshire
 652 653 654
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  in rising to move the Amendment of which he had given notice, that the Bill be read a second time that day six months said, that the hon. Gentleman who had now for the second time introduced this measure, probably thought that the long speech he had addressed to the House last year was too fresh in the minds of hon. Members to authorize him in addressing to the House a twice-told talc; but he (Mr. C, Bruce)
 626 627 pure et simple, 628 629 630 "Moreover, although the impost complained of is a tax, and not a rent-charge vested in the ministers as an endowment, yet it is a tax which the State has guaranteed to the ministers and their successors for their benefit; and unless the rights even of their successors are dealt with in a spirit of justice and moderation, a feeling of distrust and insecurity will be created as respects other endowments, which will not be limited to the Established Church of Scotland." 631 632
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH,  in moving the second reading of this Bill, referred to the antiquity and dignity of the office, and to the extravagant expenses with which in old times it was burdened. Most of these were now done away with, and his Bill was directed to what remained. A Committee which sat in 1832 recommended that the practice of meeting the Judges should be done away with, and that the number of javelinmen should be reduced. In 1839 Mr. Hume introduced a Bill to reduce and define the expenses to which Sheriffs were liable: the Bill passed that House but failed in the Lords. Several other attempts had since been made to deal with the subject, but they also failed. Now,
 624
 MR. HORSMAN : I must express the disappointment with which I have listened to the speech of the hon. Member for Stirlingshire (Mr. Blackburn); and I think the House has great reason to complain of the
 640 641 642 643 644
 MR. SCLATER BOOTH  seconded the Motion and expressed the regret he felt at hearing that the Bill was likely to be opposed in "another place" by a noble and learned Lord, who, though a liberal in politics, was by no means so liberal in other respects.
 MR. H. BAILLIE : Before going to a division, I trust that the House will not allow itself to be led away by the arguments used by the hon. Member opposite, for the purpose of showing that this question of the annuity tax of Edinburgh is analogous to that of church rates. I am sure that the right hon. Member for Leith (Mr. Moncreiff) did not give expression to that opinion as a lawyer, because nothing to my mind can be more dissimilar than those two questions. Church rates are a voluntary tax, they can only be levied by a parish where a majority has declared in favour of them. This, however, is a tax which has been imposed by Parliament about 200 years ago. It is just as much a fixed and legal tax upon property as tithes are. Now, what would happen, and what would the people say, if an English gentleman came down to the House and said he had a conscientious objection to the payment of tithes, and therefore he wished to bring in a Bill to exempt his own property from the payment of tithes? Now, that is literally and truly what the hon. Member for Edinburgh has done on the present occasion. This annuity tax is a tax imposed upon the city of Edinburgh. The only difference is that tithes is a tax of ten per cent, whereas this is only a tax of six per cent upon the land revenue. In dealing with this question, therefore, the English Members must clearly understand that this annuity tax of Edinburgh resembles not in the slightest degree that of church rates, nor does it resemble the other tax alluded to—namely, ministers' money in Ireland. But the question of ministers' money has been already decided; it has been decided in the manner in which we are all prepared to deal with this question—amely by providing a substitute for it. Ministers' money was
 655
 MR. LABOUCHERE : Sir, I owe an apology to the House for taking any part in a debate which seems particularly to interest Scotch Members; but some years ago, as a Commissioner appointed for the purpose of investigating certain matters in Scotland, I had occasion to look into the state of affairs in Edinburgh. They were then in a state of great difficulty and confusion, and my attention was necessarily directed to this annuity-tax. At that period great excitement existed on the subject, and I believe discontent and excitement have continued up to the present time, although they have not broken out into actual violence. I believe, Sir, that this state of things is grounded upon well-founded dissatisfaction; and I do not think it is wise or proper to neglect this important question merely because the grievance has hitherto been borne with patience, or that a body of lawyers should be exempt from a contribution to which all other classes of the community in Edinburgh are subjected. Such a state of things must naturally create discontent in that city. I am sure the House will feel
 666 667
 MR. MACKIE : I agree with what has been said by those who preceded me in the debate, that so long as this annuity tax remains, so long will it continue in the city of Edinburgh the demon of strife and hatred and malice. I therefore, I need not say, should rejoice to see the tax abolished; but I must also say that I wish, as a matter of justice, before this abolition takes place, to see a substitute provided. It has been said that this case—the case I mean of the annuity tax—is analogous to the case of church rates, and therefore as the House has expressed its wish for the abolition of the rates, it will also desire to abolish the Edinburgh annuity tax. With all due deference to the hon. Gentleman who maintained this argument, he is altogether mistaken in supposing the existence of any analogy. In the case of church rates you have no character of fixity. The House of Lords, the highest Court of Appeal in the land, have decided that church rates are dependent on parochial majorities, and therefore they appear to amount to little more than a parish subscription. The analogy, therefore, is not correct between church rates and the annuity tax. The annuity tax is a fixed charge depending on the value of property, therefore it appears to me that those who advocate the abolition of the tax without a substitute, relying on the analogy of church rates, have not the best of the argument. But a very close analogy has been drawn, and may still be drawn, between this case and the case of ministers' money in Ireland. It was not the abolition only that convinced the House of Commons, for there was pointed out in that case a safe and sufficient substitute. So, it appears to me that if you can find a substitute for the annuity tax, it will be quite a right and proper thing to abolish it; but, as there is no substitute provided, it appears to me to be altogether wrong to abolish the tax. What are the substitutes? The church-door collection is already appropriated by statute—by act of Parliament; and the other substitute suggested, I mean the substitute of pew-rents, is already secured to the city corporation, and the city corpora-
 668
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : Sir, I am quite willing to obey the call of the House upon this occasion, and hon. Members may rely upon it that I am not going to insinuate, in the remotest degree, that the opposition to this Bill is anything but worthy of it. I am too well aware of the highly conscientious character of the Scotch to be surprised at the objection which is felt upon the part of many persons to this impost; nor would I for one moment impute that that opposition is an improper one, or caused by motives of which any one could feel ashamed; on the contrary, I believe that the opposition is based upon the most conscientious
 645 646 647 648 649 Vict., s d s. d. s. s. d. s. d. 650
 MR. MONCREIFF : Sir, I am much gratified to hear the announcement of my right hon. Friend that it is the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill with reference to this subject. However, I do not rise for the purpose of entering into the discussion of the details of the question, but to make an appeal to my right hon. Friend not to persist in his opposition to the second reading of the Bill, but to allow it to pass on the understanding that the whole question will be more maturely considered hereafter when the Bill of the Government shall be likewise before us. I do not intend by my vote of to-day to bind myself to the details of the Bill; of its principle, however, I do approve, and believe that the annuity tax ought to be abolished; and I have been myself instrumental in introducing more than one measure for that purpose. Now, I appeal to my right hon. Friend, that having this Bill before us, and having nothing to set against it, that we should, at all events, get into Committee on the Bill; for really the only point for discussion is not whether the annuity tax should be abolished, but what is to be substituted for it. Undoubtedly there may be great difficulties under that head, and certainly I for one am not prepared to follow the hon. Member for Edinburgh to the full extent of his
 651
 MR. BRIGHT : I think the hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Black) would do wrong if he yielded to the suggestion which has been made to him to withdraw the Bill. It appears to me that the best mode of carrying a thing in this House is not by withdrawing it. We have had an example this very Session of what is to be expected from the Government with reference to a kindred subject, the abolition of church rates in England, and the example does not convince me that they are likely to introduce a measure which will settle the annuity tax in a satisfactory manner. The tax has been described as having introduced and kept alive in Edinburgh the demon of hatred, malice, and all uncharitableness. I have not said anything so bad of it as that. If it be true, as we learn from the hon. Member for Edinburgh, that there is an enormous majority in favour of the measure, not only a majority of the inhabitants of Edinburgh, but of its educated classes—I am almost afraid to say anything about population simply—I must, adopting the phraseology of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Colonies, say, the "cultivated intelligence" of Edinburgh. I will venture to say that the "cultivated intelligence" of Edinburgh is as five to one in favour of the proposition of the hon. Member for that city. There is no matter of doubt about it; not the slightest. Then why is it that in a city where the population is so attentive to all their religious duties, their ministers cannot rely on the same sources of income as the Free Church and the United Presbyterians? If the hon. Gentleman wants to find sources of income, they are to be found in abundance. There are scores of stipends in the north of Scotland, in parishes where there are no congregations. If the Parliament would sanction it, there would be no difficulty in amalgamating the parishes, and then adequate ministers' incomes would he provided for the minister of the same Church in Edinburgh or anywhere else where they are required. I do not recommend this; I only say that there is such a source if you are driven to have recourse to it. But
 669
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  asked whether the measure which had been introduced by the Government the evening before for the amendment of the Poor Law in Ireland, made any provision for the settlement of the question under discussion?
 MR. BLACKBURN : I do not wish that what I may say upon this question should be taken as any expression of opinion on the part of the Government, and therefore I trust it will be considered only that of an individual. The subject has been very forcibly stated by the hon. Member opposite, but as it appears to me the proposition which has been brought forward by the hon. Member for Edinburgh is merely a substitution of another burden in place of entirely abolishing what is admitted to be a grievance on a great portion of the community. Does the town of Edinburgh propose to adopt the principle suggested by the hon. Member for Montrose if it be brought forward by Her Majesty's Government? [Mr. BLACK: "No."] There is this difference, then, between the hon. Member for Montrose and the hon. Member for Edinburgh, that what the hon. Member for Montrose would be perfectly satisfied with, the hon. Member for Edinburgh would strenuously oppose. And let me remind the House that the hon. Member in introducing this question has employed a very considerable amount of caution. He has not stated a single reason to induce the House to consent to his Bill. The Bill itself is a measure of the strongest character. It summarily deprives the Church in one part of the kingdom of property which it has always possessed; yet, nevertheless, the hon. Member has not thought it worth while to assign a single reason why it should be read a second time. He merely moved the second reading as if it were a matter of course. We all know that the silence of the hon. Member arises from no want of zeal in the cause. He has displayed zeal enough on other occasions, and I should therefore like to know how it is that he has not spoken in the same zealous manner to-day as that in which he writes upon the question. Not only does he write himself, but, owing to his intimate connection with literary men and printing offices of all kinds, he has been enabled to get leading articles inserted in various newspapers, calling upon all true voluntaries to come down and support him in obtaining the abolition of the annuity tax. Why was it, then, that he refrained from addressing the House upon the Bill? Is he afraid that his zeal would carry him too far, and that he would commit himself with statements which the House could not possibly support? It appears to me that that must he the reason of his silence, for I can find no other. As, however, he has not
 637 638 639
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  thought the Government were bound to state what were the opinions they entertained with respect to the question. But notwithstanding the expression of the sentiments of the House in that respect, the noble Lord opposite (Lord Naas) and the Attorney General for Ireland seemed, like These us, immovable.  Sedet æternumgue sedebit.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  believed every Member of the House had come to the conclusion that the annuity tax in Edinburgh must be put an end to, and the question therefore was, whether that object could be satisfactorily effected by the present Bill. The hon. Member for Birmingham advised the hon. Member for Edinburgh to persevere in his Bill by referring to the example of what had occurred with regard to church rates; the truth being that that hon. Gentleman did not agree with the propositions of the Bill itself, because the Bill proposed to afford, although inadequate and inexpedient, some substitute for the tax to be abolished, while the hon. Gentleman wished to abolish the tax without equivalent and without substitute. [Mr. BRIGHT: No.] I understood him to say that, in a rich and intelligent city like Edinburgh, there are plenty of sources whence the income of the ministers ought to be provided. But on what ground does the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Labouchcre) proceed? He says, "I shall support the second reading, but I shall in Committee propose Amendments." I understand him to say that he does not agree with the provisions of the Bill, but he considers that in Committee differences of opinion may be arranged. It is clear, therefore, that neither does he approve the provisions of the present measure. We all of us
 670
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, the hon. Member had mentioned a number of instances of hardships to which high Sheriffs were exposed in the execution of their duty, but not one of them was remedied by the Bill. The sole object of the measure was to relieve them of the obligation of engaging javelinmen to be in attendance upon the Judges. The wish of the House had always been to relieve those who were called upon to discharge, gratuitously, a public duty from any unnecessary expense, and in the present case, he thought there ought to be no more than was requisite to keep up the dignity of the Judges who represented the Sovereign at the assizes. Since there had been instituted in each county a body of police for the preservation of good order and peace, he had no sort of objection to substitute that organized force for the javelinmen. It was quite unnecessary to provide for the non-payment of fees to the Judges' servants, such payments having been illegal ever since the time of Charles II., he therefore hoped the House would pass the second reading: but when the Bill went into Committee he believed he should be able to show that a great deal of it might very well be omitted.
 MR. BAXTER  said, his principal object in rising was to make an appeal to the Government for a candid and explicit statement of what they proposed to do with a view to the settlement of this question. In reference to what had been said by the hon. Member for Elgin of the hon. Member for Edinburgh and his refusal to pay this tax, in his (Mr. Baxter's) opinion the hon. Member for Elgin had given most conclusive reasons in favour of the second reading of the Bill. He told them that for the last two years the hon. Member for Edinburgh has refused to pay this obnoxious tax, and that therefore he was in considerable danger of being sent to the House of Correction. Was it not a strong argument in favour of abolishing this tax that a gentleman of influence and respectability was by reason of his strong conscientious objections to the payment of this impost, placed in such danger? It was a direct interference with rights of conscience to insist upon levying a tax so obnoxious as this to the religious feelings of a large portion of the community. He had listened attentively to the arguments of the hon. Gentleman against the Bill, and the first that attracted his attention was that it relieved the rate-payers of Edinburgh from a burden attached to their property, and which they ought to be called upon to pay. But the hon. Gentleman must surely have forgotten the discussions upon ministers' money in Ireland, and he asked, was not this precisely an analogous case? Yet the Legislature had relieved the rate-payers of the towns in Ireland from the payment of ministers' money, by an Act for that
 633 634 635
 MR. DOBBS  moved the Adjournment of the debate. [Cries for "Lord NAAS!"].
 MR. GREGORY , in rising to move the second reading of this Bill, said, it was rendered necessary in consequence of a decision come to by the Poor Law Board that all children in workhouses, the religion of whose parents could not be ascertained, should be brought up as Protestants. This decision, in the face of the vast proportion of Roman Catholics and of Catholic pauper children in the majority of parishes in Ire-
 673
 MR. MONSELL  [who rose amid cries for "Lord NAAS"] said, he thought it was incumbent upon Her Majesty's Government
 676
 MR. GROGAN  said, that no one could complain of the tone in which his hon. Friend the Mover and the noble Lord the Seconder of this Motion had dealt with the question; but their proposition came to this—that the law of the land ought to be changed to meet the views of those who objected to the present system of registering deserted children. If these children were not registered as Protestants the opinion of Chief Justice Blackburne must be upset. Mr. Blackburne was at present Lord Justice of Appeal in Ireland; he had for some years filled the office of Lord Chancellor there, and it was well known that there was no more competent opinion on matters of this kind. It was said by his hon. Friend that Mr. Justice Keogh had delivered an opinion the other way. But was it so? What was Mr. Keogh's opinion? Why, that where it was shown that the child had been baptized in a particular religion, it ought to be presumed that its parents were of that religion, and be registered accordingly. The simple point before the House was whether they were prepared to repeal the established law of the land, as interpreted by one of the most eminent legal gentlemen in Ireland, merely for the purpose of accommodating some of the boards of guardians in the south; and he called upon hon. Members therefore, not under the pretence of restoring harmony and doing away with the bickerings and heart burnings which now existed, to introduce an element which must inevitably lead to those very consequences. Adopt this measure, and enact that boards of guardians should have the power at any of their meetings to declare the religion in which a deserted child
 675
 MR. CHILD  said, that the clause last referred to would by no means be unnecessary; for he had only the other day been shown some accounts by a friend who had had to provide, amongst other things, 180 gallons of ale for the Judges' servants.
 SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR  stated, that he did not rise for the purpose of prolonging the debate, as he believed that almost every argument had been advanced which could be brought to boar either in favour of or against the tax. At the same time, he considered it due to himself to state that after the fullest consideration he had arrived at the opinion that he ought to record his vote in favour of the abolition of the tax—reserving to himself, however, his entire freedom of action when the details of the Bill, which he thought objectionable in many respects, should come to be discussed in Committee. He had come to the conclusion to support the principle of the Bill, he might venture to say, from no feeling of hostility to the Established Church, but on the contrary, because he believed that the well-being of the church, no less than the peace of the community affected by the tax, was involved in the immediate extinction of one of the most odious imposts that ever was devised. He felt desirous that the angry feelings which the tax had engendered should be allayed, and he knew of no more likely means by which the Church could contribute to that end, or by which it would do more to regain its position in the affections of the people than by consenting—he would not ask the Church to do so in the spirit of serious self-sacrifice, but of reasonable concession—to some permanent and satisfactory settlement. Now, he was not one of those who believed that the Bill of his hon. Friend the Member for Edinburgh would effect such a settlement, but he felt persuaded that if the House should affirm, as he hoped it would, the principle of abolition, the Government would be bound, if they did not feel it to be their duty, to consider the matter, not only with the gravity which
 656 657
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, there appeared to be but one wish on both sides with regard to the abolition of the annuity tax. He believed there was no difference of opinion on either side that the tax must be abolished. But he rose to suggest to
 671
 MR. JAMES  said, he rose to ask Mr. Attorney General whether the attention of Her Majesty's Government has been drawn to the large arrear of Causes waiting for judicial decision in the Divorce and Matrimonial Causes Court; and whether they are prepared to propose any measure, by the appointment of additional Judges or
 689
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, his attention had been for some time past directed to the subject to which the question of his hon. and learned Friend referred. It was however a subject attended with considerable difficulty. By the Act of Parliament under which the Court was constituted power was given to summon to its aid the Chief Justices and the other Judges of Common Law sitting in the Superior Courts at Westminster; but it was found that, by reason of their other numerous and important duties, their attendance at this new tribunal in adequate numbers and with sufficient frequency was wholly impracticable. Under these circumstances he thought it would be better to make certain inquiries, and upon the result of those inquiries, which would come before them in a few days, he proposed to submit the whole matter to Her Majesty's Government, who he was sure would take it into their serious consideration.
 MR. SERJEANT DEASY  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty whether he has received any communications complaining of any alleged undue interference with the religion of any of; the Sailors serving onboard Her Majesty's Ship  Ajax
 MR. KINGLAKE  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether any negotiation is pending between Her Majesty's Government and the Government of France with respect to a French vessel called the  Phœnix, 690 Alecto,
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, that it was not correct to say that negotiations were pending between Her Majesty's Government and the Government of France in reference to the  Phœnix Alecto Phœnix,
 MR. HEADLAM : Sir, one great advantage I think that has been derived from this prolonged discussion—we are beginning at last to understand the real point at issue. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ashton (Mr. Milner Gibson) has very much elucidated that point, and the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down would have done much better if, instead of discussing points that are not raised in this debate—if, instead of arguing the question of a £6 or £10 franchise, he had explained to the House what really was the policy of the Government he rose to defend. I, in common with the rest of the House, have listened with admiration to the speech of the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary of State for the Colonies, and I must say, that eloquent as that speech was throughout—and argumentative as it was in part—it seems to me that there is a very clear and obvious answer to it, and so far from having any injurious effect on those against whom it was directed, it recoils upon those on whose behalf it was made. The right hon. Baronet has expatiated upon the infinite advantages that would be conferred by this Bill, and said we had now an opportunity of settling this question; but if Her Majesty's Government desired to confer those great benefits and advantages upon the people, what right had they to fetter their Bill with conditions which rendered it perfectly impossible that the House could accept it? What right had Her Majesty's Government to traffic and barter with the people of this country and say, except you will take what we offer, the people of England shall not have that which we are prepared to give them? Recollect how detestable their offerings are; how repugnant to the feelings of Gentlemen on both sides of the House—how loathsome to the people of the nation who have covered the table with petitions against the Bill, which render the passing of it entirely impossible. I do not wish to misrepresent the Government; but I ask, was it right to make conditions of this kind, or traffic upon the advantages they offered? Was there any plea of necessity in favour of those conditions? This subject of Reform has been before the country for years, and the ingenuity of clever men had been exercised to discover all the grievances that could be found in reference to the existing state of things. We have
 712 713 714 715 716 717
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, he feared that he should be looked upon as a very ungrateful person by Her Majesty's Government, when he said that he could not support the second reading; but he thought he could not fairly be charged with ingratitude when it was remembered that almost every hon. Member on their own side of the House, had either spoken against the Bill or found fault with its details. He quite admitted that, after the great concessions which had been made by the Government to the principle for which he had contended for some years—that of extending the county franchise to £10 occupiers—they might almost have expected him to vote in favour of the Bill. They had, however, so spoilt and mutilated the measure he had proposed, having deprived it of its very life and spirit, that he found it impossible to do so. His Bill was of a very simple nature, and merely proposed to extend the franchise to a very deserving and intelligent class of persons in counties, who did not now possess it. His measure did not propose to disfranchise a single person, nor did it profess to be in any respect a Reform Bill. The measure of the Government was a Reform Bill, and one of its most objectionable features was, that it proposed to disfranchise, without their consent, a class of persons who now possessed the franchise in counties. If, indeed, they took the amended clauses of the Bill, it proposed that these persona should not be disfranchised if they were at the trouble of re-registering their votes; but even then it provided that their suc-
 725 726 727 728
 MR. DUTTON  said, he should vote against the Amendment of the noble Lord, not because he objected to the principles of the Resolution, for in those principles he entirely agreed, but because he believed the proper time to consider them was when the Bill was in Committee. It was, in fact, only in Committee that this great question of Reform, by whomsoever introduced, could be properly dealt with. He thought it was neither just nor politic to interfere with the borough freeholders, who for so many centuries had enjoyed the privileges which it was proposed to take from them. He could speak, as well as the noble Lord, of the great antiquity of borough freeholds. The noble Lord traced them to William the Conqueror. In his own part of the country he knew an instance of a freeholder who could go back to nearly the same date—to William Rufus—and he believed that he lived now in the same locality as his family did in those days. He wished the Government had taken the advice of his two right hon. Friends who had seceded from the Cabinet, and who
 729 s. s.
 MR. W. H. DENISON  said, in reference to this matter the House had to satisfy the just expectations of non-electors as well as electors, and, having asked himself whether the Bill was likely to do this he had arrived at the conclusion that it would not. As regarded the counties it appeared that the object of this Bill was to enfranchise voters in one direction, and to disfranchise them in another; as regarded boroughs to do nothing at all. He thought, therefore, that if it were passed it would have no effect in stopping agitation. It would not prove a permanent and lasting measure of Reform, and indeed it appeared to him that it had not many friends in the House. Those who had spoken in support of it from the Ministerial
 724
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, that the hon. Member who had just sat down deserved great credit for having removed the debate from the arena of party conflict and for making a clear way towards discussing the question whether this measure was really a judicious Bill for amending the representation of the people. Of the hon. Member's speech he must say, however, that wise and sound as were his premisses, his conclusions limped lazily after them. He had himself as much respect for the working classes as the hon. Member, but it did not follow from this that he was as willing to vest them with political power. But before they could come to the consideration of the Bill, there was a bar interposed in the Amendment of the noble Lord, and the various other Resolutions which prevented their arriving at the real issue. Speaking as he did from that side of the House he could still, for his own part, condemn such Resolutions with a clean breast and a clear conscience. The two parties had indeed changed their seats last year in consequence of their vote on the abstract Resolution of the hon. Member for Ashton, which prevented them from coming to the consideration of the second reading of the Conspiracy Bill. But he himself had voted with the 99 against the introduction of that measure, and so his vote upon that Resolution was one against the second reading itself, and not one in favour of the proposition of the Member
 735 736 737 738 The Morning Advertiser, 739 740 from the Opposition 741 742 743
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the question addressed to me by the hon. Gentleman is not precisely that which he first put upon the Paper, but I have no objection to reply to it. It is impossible, however, for me to give a categorical answer to a question of this kind addressed to me at this moment. It would demand a statement, both of argument and of detail, which could not be compressed within the legitimate scope of a reply to a question put to a Minister on this occasion. But, Sir, this I will say to the hon. Gentleman, that when I introduced the Bill for the Amendment of the Representation of the People it was the opinion of my Colleagues that there was no provision in that measure which might not in Committee be beneficially submitted to that calm and impartial consideration, which the House had pledged itself to her Majesty to give to this question, and without which pledge on the part of this assembly, considering the circumstances under which we acceded to power, that Bill would certainly not have been introduced.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he thought the House must feel considerable gratification that the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had at last expressed his opinions upon Parliamentary Reform, for during the last ten years that right hon. Gentleman had studiously maintained perfect silence in that House on the question of Reform; and even when an opportunity was lately afforded him of disburdening his mind before his own constituents, he with great discretion referred his audience to his hon. Friend (Mr. Bright) who sat near him. It must, however, be satisfactory to the House to have heard on this subject, not merely the personal opinion of the right hon. Gentleman, but the views of what was called the Manchester School, which had been placed before them for the first time in the course of this debate. The House had now at all events the whole issue before them and were acquainted with the views of every party. The right hon. Gentleman had criticized many features in this Bill, to which he had given the name of "conditions;" but they were features which the noble Lord had put forward by his Amendment as the principles of the measure. He thought the right hon. Gentleman did not seem to be aware what the real question before the House was, or what was the only issue that could be
 702 703 704 705 706 conditions principles, s. s. s. 707 s.
 MR. ADDERLEY : Those words, "to some extent," were, he could not help thinking, somewhat vague. But the argument of the right hon. Gentleman meant that the operation of one of the proposals to which he was referring would be to neutralize the other, or it meant nothing. In his (Mr. Adderley's) own county the now £10 occupation votes which would be
 708 709 710 tabula rasa 711
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he had listened with great attention to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ashton (Mr. M. Gibson), whom he was sorry not then to see in his place. The right hon. Gentleman was one of the first members of that political party with which he was connected to address the House during this debate. He (Mr. Bentinck) was in great hopes that they should have elicited from the right hon. Gentleman some information as to what were the views and intentions of those with whom he was politically associated, and as to the course they would take in the event of the Resolution of the noble Lord being successful in rejecting the Bill before the House. But though the right hon. Gentleman spoke with his usual eloquence, though he spoke most ably for a period of about half an hour, yet as far as he (Mr. Bentinck) could understand him, the right hon. Gentleman had told them nothing. From only one observation in the right hon. Gentleman's speech had he been able to extract anything as to the real character of the policy and the views of his political party. The right hon. Gentleman talked of the numerous spontaneous meetings that had taken place throughout the country in favour of Reform, and which he said were attended by all the educated and intelligent classes of the population. Now he (Mr. Bentinck), could recollect what had really taken place at. most of those meetings. Whatever might have been the original objects of those meetings they resulted in the adop-
 718 719 bonâ fide The Times 720 721 722 Laughter.  Laughter. Cries of 723
 MR. TURNER  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Treasury if his attention has been drawn to an advertisement in some of the London Newspapers of the 10th instant from the Commissioners of Inland Revenue, inviting tenders for 1,250 reams of paper, for Postage Envelopes of an unusually large size, and for which the said Board do not bind themselves to accept the lowest tender; whether the Government have considered and sanctioned the propriety of any of the Public Departments being at liberty to contract for the supply of Paper or Stationery, either for the public service or to be sold to the public, without reference to the cost of the article instead of the contract being made in the usual manner by the Comptroller of Her Majesty's Stationery Office with the party who may send in the lowest tender.
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, in the observations I am anxious to address to the House I shall endeavour to confine myself strictly to the question. I shall not attempt any answer to some of these, perhaps well intended but rather evil and malicious assaults that have been made upon me during the course of this debate. I shall not attempt any explanation in answer to what was said by the hon. and learned Solicitor General on Tuesday, when he spoke of an alliance between the noble Lord the Member for the City of London and myself. That which is purely imaginary is not, I think it will be admitted, easy to explain; and the House, I believe, will give me credit when I say, that if I am found acting with the noble Lord it is because I believe the course that he is taking is advantageous to the country; and I hope that if I have hereafter occasion to differ from him they will give me credit also, and will presume that I differ from him only because my convictions induce me to take a course different from that of the noble Lord. There are two questions before us—the Bill of the Government and the Resolution of the noble Lord; and, in addition to this, the great and comprehensive question of Parliamentary Reform, which has been more or less discussed by every hon. Member who has addressed the House. With regard to the Bill itself there is a singular unanimity of feeling. With the exception of Gentlemen on the Treasury bench, who may be considered in the light of professional witnesses, I believe no hon. Member has spoken who has not expressed a strong repugnance to some of the main points or principles of the Bill. A remarkable speech was delivered by a right hon. Gentleman
 774 775 776 Cries of 777 778 779 780 781 782 "In effect, therefore, the constant majority is a majority of non-residents who—with rare exceptions, are supporters of the corporation party." 783 Cheers. from the Ministerial side of the House 784 785 d., 786 787 788 789 790 "But some say that we, as working men, have no stake and no interest hi the country. I hardly know what is meant by these assertions; but if to make sacrifices for the good of our country be any proof of an interest, I believe the working classes can clearly show greater sacrifices, and fairly claim to have greater stake and interests both in the country and in good government. I had three uncles who all lost their lives fighting for their country; I had three brothers, two of whom served under Lord Wellington throughout the Peninsular campaign; and my third and youngest brother lost his life in the Indian war, and now lies buried at Kurnaul. I had two nephews, one of whom died of the cholera at
 791 792
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Sir, if I do not attempt to follow the hon. Member for Maidstone (Mr. Beresford Hope) through his ingenious and elaborate speculations on this debate, it is from no disrespect to him, but his speech was so much a private and confidential communication to the Treasury Bench, that really it was very difficult for any Gentleman on this side of the House to hear what he said; but what I did hear was quite sufficient to assure me that he is not the Reformer he represented himself to be when I canvassed the borough of Dungarvon in his favour, six years ago. But to proceed to this question of Reform; I think it is in a most anomalous position. We are told by Her Majesty's Government that no one in the country cares about Reform; yet by an extraordinary coincidence, everybody is anxious to carry a Reform Bill. Now, I am not about to scan the motives or examine the antecedents of the right hon. Gentleman. I think Her Majesty's Government have
 744 745 746 747 748 s. 749 Great laughter, in which Mr. Spooner joined. s. s. beau ideal 750 beau ideal 751 752 "Will no experience warn? You resist the principle of a small reform; beware how your own procrastination irritates the public mind to that point when even a large reform can do little more than save you from revolution." "He did not look very favourably upon the suggestions of one whose very abilities had only served to render more conspicuous the great disproportion between his unrivalled power as a debater and his ill-luck, no less unrivalled, in his capacity as a legislator." 753
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, the longer I listen to this debate, the more convinced am I—in common, I think, with almost the whole of the House—that we are placed in a position of considerable difficulty and embarrassment, from which the speech of the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down—lively as was its wit, powerful as were its arguments in many parts—is not likely to extricate us. On the one hand we have a Reform Bill announced by the Government, which, unfortunately, from the principles that are more or less involved in it, will not, and I think cannot, without material alteration, be acceptable either to this House or to the country. On the other hand, I feel, in common, I believe, with most of those who have spoken in this debate, and in common with the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, that it is desirable to endeavour, if possible, to come to a settlement, instead of continuing the agitation on this subject, instead of hanging it up for another year, or, I may say, of turning it adrift once more with nothing to direct and guide its course. Placed in this difficulty, and looking at this debate, I feel I own more than ordinary anxiety, first, to settle the question if we can; and secondly, to settle in such a manner as not to involve the recognition of principles, fatal to the constitution, and which will not be of a fixed and permanent character. The embarrassment in which we are placed has materially increased since the debate began, for every one who has spoken has addressed one set of sentiments to the House, and announced his intention of voting against them. The hon. Member for Dorsetshire (Mr. Sturt) in a speech which I am sure must make
 754 in limine 755 756 757 758 "So long as they took the voices aloud, the conduct of each citizen was exposed to the eyes and the ears of his friends and his countrymen; and the aspect of a grave magistrate was a living lesson to the multitude. The new method of secret voting abolished the influence of fear and shame, of honour and of interest, and the abuse of freedom accelerated the progress of anarchy and of despotism." Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, 759 760 761 762 763 s. 764 s. s. 765 766 767 s. 768 769 770 771 772 773
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, that the Commissioners had last year made a partial and preliminary Report on the subject referred to them, and he hoped their final Report would be ready for presentation in a short time—certainly before the close of the present Session. Until, however, that final Report had been received no action could be taken upon it by the Government. He had entire confidence that the Report would be satisfactory to the country.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I did not say it would create an exact counterpoise. I simply referred to the opinion expressed by the noble Lord the Member for Stamford (Lord R. Cecil), and proceeded to show that a counterpoise would be effect- ed to some extent.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that he was desirous of addressing to the House
 693 694 695 696 697 698 s. s. 699 700 701
 MR. MITCHELL  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether the Government is to be under-Stood to persist in maintaining the uniformity of the town and county franchise as
 692
 Mr. W. J. FOX  said, that the hon. Member who had just sat down agreed with the Amendment, and yet announced his determination to vote against it. He dissented from the principle of the Bill, which was uniformity of suffrage, yet he declared be should vote for the second reading. How the hon. Member reconciled these views and intentions it was the hon. Member's business to solve. The hon. Member said be would put his Amendments into the Bill after the second reading. But these Amendments went to the very heart and principle of the Bill. The Opposition offered the Government the opportunity of remoulding the Bill, but they declared that if it were not done they would reject it. He had listened very anxiously throughout this debate to learn what were the great accusations against the working classes, and these accusations certainly ought to have been brought into greater prominence. They had heard strong laudations of the middle classes. They
 730 731 732 733 "Who, born for the universe, narrowed his mind, "And to party gave up what was meant for mankind." 734
 MR. POWELL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether a Report has been received from the Commission appointed to revise the scale of remuneration to witnesses and professional men engaged at assizes and sessions; to what portion of the matters referred such Report, if partial, extends, and whether the Government intend to introduce a more liberal scale of remuneration to witnesses and professional men so engaged?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in answer to the question he had to state, that he did receive a communication complaining of some alleged interference with the religion of sailors on board the  Ajax.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  in reply said, he had seen the advertisement to which the question of the hon. Gentleman referred. The matter was not one that had ever been in the Department of the Comptroller of Her Majesty's Stationery Office. All the paper used for the supply of the Public Departments had always been obtained through the Stationery Office by way of contract, the practice being to accept the lowest tender. But with regard to the Postage Envelopes, the
 691
 MAJOR STUART KNOX  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the
 812
 SIR EDWARD BULWER LYTTON  said, he would answer the second part of the hon. and gallant Member's question first. As he had stated on a former occasion, the circular of Lord Hill did not require that any honours should be paid to the Host at the time of its passing in procession. But he believed there was some old garrison order in the island by which the Host, nevertheless, had been saluted. To put an end to that practice he had sent out instructions to the Governor that he should strictly adhere to the circular of Lord Hill, so that the Host would not in future be saluted in Malta. He had heard no complaint from any other colony. With regard to the former part of his hon. and gallant Friend's question, he had to remind him that the Archbishop of Malta was not only a religious person, but that in the eyes of the Maltese he represented the chivalry of the Knights of Malta, and the glorious history of their island, and therefore it had always been the custom to give him the honours of a military chief—the honours, in fact, that were due to a brigadier general. He had precedence in the island next to the representative of royalty. He believed that it would be dangerous, and that it would create a considerable amount of disaffection in Malta, at all events during the life of the present archbishop, if these honours were dispensed with, especially as the archbishop had always shown a warm attachment to the British Crown, and a readiness to recommend obedience to the laws. At the same time as he thought that Protestants might have good grounds to complain if these honours were paid to him at the moment he was bearing the Host, so that it might appear that the most itself was saluted. He had given instructions that such honours should only be paid to the archbishop in his civil capacity, and that when he was accompanying the procession of the Host, they should be suspended, and only Lord Hill's circular should then be enforced. He had no objection to lay the papers on this subject
 813
 LORD NAAS  said, the question was under the consideration of the Treasury, with a view, if possible, to provide for an equalization of the fees. He could not say that any decision had yet been arrived at. When it was he would communicate it to the House.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, the European Commissioners who had been appointed in conformity with the Articles of the Treaty of Paris had collected a great deal of valuable information, and had suggested several plans for the improvement of the Danube. It was agreed by the Five Powers that these plans should he submitted to a Commission of Engineers, which Commission had met in Paris, and they gave in their Report on the 25th of August last. The conclusion at which the Com-missioners arrived was that the St. George's mouth of the Danube was much preferable for improvements to the Sulina mouth. The expense of the improvements at that mouth were estimated at £360,000; but if all the improvements which the Commissioners recommended were carried out, he was satisfied that the expense would be not less than £500,000. The works would be undertaken under the superintendence of the European Commission and the expenditure, to be defrayed in the first instance by the Turkish Government, was to be repaid by a duty to be paid by all ships that cuter the Danube. The opinion of Major Stokes, our Commissioner at the Danube, was that these works could not be commenced before the year 1860. There were a great many details still to be settled — plans and specifications were to be made out. It would be some time before the contractors could send in their tenders, and besides that there were other causes of delay.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL : Sir, I rise to move that the House at its rising do adjourn till Monday next; and I do so for the purpose of making a statement, or rather correcting a misstatement, which was made by an hon. Gentleman last night, and which was personal to myself. The hon. Member for Dovor (Mr. Osborne), alluding to some remarks addressed by myself to my constituents, used these words: —
 "How does the hon. Gentleman get out of his hustings pledges at Belfast? I remember well that at his election he told his constituents there were two questions to be considered, one of expediency and one of principle. This very ques-
 815
 MR. FITZROY  said, he rose to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department. It would be in the recollection of hon. Members that, among the Orders of the day that stood for yesterday there was a bill entitled Operatives and Masters Bill, which was promoted by the hon. Member for Rye (Mr. Mackinnon). That Bill was read a second time owing to a mistake of the hon. Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond), who imagined when the title of the Bill was called, that it was one which he was promoting under the title of Combinations of Work men Bill. There were considerable objections to the Bill of the hon. Member for Rye, which had thus been read a second time by mistake, and considerable inconvenience would arise, to say nothing of the irregularity, if this stage of the Bill was allowed to be taken under a mistake. He would ask the right hon. Gentleman whether he intended to move a Resolution that the proceedings of yesterday, so far as they related to that Bill, should be held null and void, or what other course he intended to take, so that no inconvenience might be sustained by this mistake.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he rose
 819
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he would not trespass at great length on the attention of the House.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that before the debate was proceeded with, he wished to correct an error into which his hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) had fallen last night in referring to his speech on a previous evening. His hon.
 826
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, no one could wonder at the cheers which greeted the right hon. Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Walpole) when he rose to address the House, or indeed consider the various aspects that the debate bad assumed, without feeling that the House had got into a situation of embarrassment. That position was attributable to various causes. In the first place, the main question with which they had to deal was one so complicated, and at the same time so important, that it was hardly possible to propose any measure respecting it which would not be productive of embarrassment. That embarrassment was increased by the fact that the Government which brought forward the Bill were confessedly in a minority in that House; that their scheme of Reform did not originate altogether spontaneously with them, but was rather an answer to a call made by the country. And it was the more difficult and embarrassing that this call for a measure, though loud, was anything but distinct as to the particular objects which were desired. But these which might be called the natural difficulties of the position were by no means all. Not only had the House to consider the circumstances under which the Bill was introduced, but the manner in which it was met, and the issue which was raised by the noble Lord's Resolution. That issue was a peculiarly embarrassing one. They were not now engaged in a fair stand-up fight on the second reading, nor had they the advantage of the open council of Committee; they were entering at one stage upon discussions which belonged more properly to another. Then, too, the Resolution, though it dealt only with two points, was so general in its terms respecting them, and left matters so uncertain, that no one was able to say distinctly what was the issue
 827 828 829 830 831 Laughter. 832 833 834 "But, according to the existing arrangement, they may also say, 'Here is a town which has grown up, which, has 10,000, 12,000, or 14,000 inhabitants, but which sends no special representatives to Parliament; but there is a town, only five miles off, which has only 5,000 inhabitants, and which is made up partly by the addition of country parishes. It is very hard that that town should have Members, while that in which we reside has none? If we are not going to alter the distribution of seats in this
 835 s. s. 836 s. 837 maximum s. s. s. s. 838 Laughter. 839
 MR. SPEAKER  called upon Mr. CARDWELL. Hereupon there were cries for Mr. BEAUMONT; and
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  inquired whether, when Mr. Speaker had called upon a Member to address the House, it was regular for hon. Members to prevent his proceeding, and insist upon another Member being heard.
 MR. SPEAKER  again called on Mr. CARDWELL.
 MR. CARDWELL : Sir, when my hon. Friend the Secretary to the Treasury rose to address the House I knew that we should have the pleasure of listening to an able and temperate speech. When he referred to the difficulties under which the House finds itself in dealing with this great and important question, I hoped that his speech would close with information which would give us some facility for extricating ourselves from those embarrassments. When he addressed himself to the distinction between matters of principle, which must be settled upon the second reading, and matters of detail, which should be considered in Committee, I hoped that before he sat down he would tell us what part of the Bill, in the judgment of those who propose it, ought to be discussed upon the present occasion, and what parts, being matters of detail and capable of amendment at a subsequent stage, the Government do not think belong to the principle of their measure. But when I listened to his able speech to its close, and endeavoured to draw a distinction between principle and details, I
 840 841 842 s. 843 844 845 846 847 848
 MR. DRUMMOND : It is a great misfortune for ourselves, and for the measure we are discussing, that we all seem to be mystified and at cross-purposes, scarcely any one knowing whether he is speaking upon a principle or a detail, or knowing whether there is a principle or a detail in the Bill. The right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down asks why this Bill was introduced? Why, because it was forced upon the Government, and the Government brought in the Bill to keep themselves in office. And now, what is the Opposition on the other side? It is a triangular duel, and the question is which one of these noble Lords is to be the head of Her Majesty's Government, pledged to the consideration of this subject of Reform. There are many hon. Gentlemen in this House who take to themselves, upon all occasions, the character of being independent Members; but somehow I never see that these independent Members act in any other way than the dependent Members. I do not understand why, upon this occasion, they are obliged to range themselves on the side of one or other of these combatants, instead of
 849 850 851 852 Reforme Agricole. 853
 MR. DENT  said, he had listened with attention to the speeches coming from the other side of the House, and he had been surprised to find that many hon. Members who had expressed their want of concurrence in the Bill had nevertheless stated that they would vote against the Resolution. The main ground of defence of the Bill put forward by Her Majesty's Government was, that it would act as a barrier against that "ugly rush" of which some hon. Members appeared to be afraid. He believed that the Bill would he ineffectual to check any call for real Reform. Its provisions went simply to calling into existence a class of voters who would be greatly under the control of the country gentlemen, while by its insidiously disqualifying the 40 s. 854
 MR. PACKE  said, he must protest against the assumption made with such arrogance by the hon. Gentlemen below the Opposition gangway, that they were the only friends of the working classes, and possessed a monopoly of the knowledge of them. He had some acquaintance with the working classes of the town of Leicester, and there did not, he believed, exist a more loyal or a more contented body of men. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Birmingham took upon himself to proclaim that he was the champion of the working classes; he boasted of having given them their bread; but on every one occasion on which the question of bettering the working classes had come on for discussion, the hon. Gentleman invariably voted against them. When his late hon. Colleague (Sir Henry Halford) introduced a measure to give a man a fair day's wages for a fair day's work, the hon. Member voted against it. It was, however, much to the honour of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Leicester (Mr. Biggs), himself a manufacturer, that he had done everything to improve the working classes. When the Factory Act was introduced, for protecting young people below the age of eighteen, and women from excessive labour, the hon. Gentleman opposed it, and he acted in the same manner to the Bill for doing away with the truck system, which he opposed, not only with his vote, but his voice. These were not the acts of a real friend of the working classes. It was not pretended that the very Bill before the House did not give some advantage to the working classes— this Bill, too, was now opposed by the hon. Member. Taking the information which present circumstances afforded, he must say that he did not think the working classes valued the suffrage so highly as it was the fashion with some hon. Gentlemen to represent; certainly in the cases of those boroughs where a large portion of the voters were of that class, many of them did not take the trouble to record their votes. He found that 11,000 of the electors of Marylebone had abstained from voting at the
 855 856 s. seriatim
 LORD HARRYVANE  said, it was rather a remarkable thing that not a single hon. Member who had addressed them, except the Members of the Government, had said one word in defence of the Bill itself. There were various reasons urged against the Resolution and in favour of going into Committee; but not one word from any independent Member on either side of the House in approval of the provisions of the measure. They had had an able and conciliatory speech from the hon. Baronet the Secretary of the Treasury (Sir S. Northcote), which was in remarkable contrast with those of the Secretary for India and of the Secretary for the Colonies. The speech of the Secretary to the Treasury was, no doubt, very conciliatory and full of promises that in Committee the Government would consent to as many alterations as the Opposition side of the House might propose; but the misfortune was that the hon. Gentleman was not a Member of the Cabinet. He had, no
 857 858 quasi 859 860 861
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, that although seldom venturing to take a share in these great party struggles, he felt that, as he had, on the urgent request of many hon. Gentlemen who agreed with him, placed on the books the form of a Resolution which he proposed to move in the event of the success of the noble Lord's Amendment, some explanation of his purpose and views was due to the House. He regretted to hear from the conclusion of the speech just delivered, that he and the noble Lord were not about to vote on the same side, for in one point at least he agreed with him, that it was desirable that some settlement should be made of this great and embarrassing question. But to vote for the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for the city would be to prevent any settlement; while to vote for the second reading of the Bill was to embrace the only opportunity which offered of effecting that settlement. In the present position the House had two alternatives—either to vote for the second reading, or by adopting the Resolution to vote in substance, though not in form, against the second reading. If the Bill were read a second time, it would be open to Amendments, and it was not for him to foretell how far modifications might be carried, but who doubted that the Amendment was intended to defeat the Bill, or that in all probability it would have that effect? He trusted, however, that they were not to understand literally the declaration of the Secretary of State of India, that if the Amendment were carried the Government would throw up the Bill, retire from office, or appeal to the country. Before taking that course he hoped the Government would hesitate and reflect on its dangers. At least it was the intention of the noble Lord's followers, by voting for the Amendment, to defeat this Bill. [ Cheers. 862 "That while this House, having, at the opening of the present Session of Parliament, in answer to Her Majesty's most gracious Speech from the Throne, assured Her Majesty that they would give to the great subject of the state of the laws which regulate the representation of the people in Parliament that degree of calm and impartial consideration which is proportionate to the magnitude of the interests involved in the result of their discussions, they will without delay proceed to the consideration of the measures laid before them by Her Majesty's responsible advisers; but that this House is of opinion that no settlement of this question will be acceptable to the people, or enduring in its character, which does not provide, either by modifying the present Bill in Committee or otherwise, for maintaining the constitutional distinction between the county and borough suffrages, for the preservation of the freehold franchises hitherto exercised in the counties of England and Wales, and for a more extensive right of voting therein, as well as for a re-adjustment of
 863 Laughter. 864 865 866 867 868 869 870 "It is idle to say that you can pass that Amendment to-day, and go back to the Bill to-morrow or on Monday. It is quite plain that if the House, after full deliberation and complete debate, shall
 871 "That was a motion of Parliamentary tactics brought forward indeed by the hon. and gallant General, but concocted by more wily advisers, by which an attempt was made to bring together all the enemies of the Bill, and to entrap such of its friends as might be dupes and gulls enough to fall into the snare." 872 Sed non tanti reipublicœ fuit eloquentiâ Gracchorum, ut pateretur et leges. 873
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the right hon. and learned Gentleman has challenged my vote against the Motion of my noble Friend the Member for the city of London, on the ground of that which I stated upon the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ashton (Mr. M. Gibson), in regard to the Amendment he made to the Conspiracy Bill, I am sorry that I must disappoint the expectations of the right hon. and learned Gentleman, because, not thinking that there is any similarity whatever between the two cases, I am going to give my cordial support to the Resolution of my noble Friend. Sir. the Amendment moved by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ashton had nothing-whatever to do with the Bill, to the second reading of which it professed to be an Amendment. It was a direct vote of censure on the Government of the day; we accepted it in the sense intended, and in the performance of our public duty we thereupon, having clearly perceived that we had lost the confidence of this House, humbly tendered to Her Majesty the resignation of our offices. The present is no vote of censure on the Government. [ Cries of 874 pari passu, 875 Cries of toties quoties 876 877 878 879 880 881 882 883 884 885
 MR. WHITESIDE : I entirely concur, Sir, in the sentiments which were expressed by the noble Lord the Member for London on the first evening of this debate as to the gravity and importance of the subject under discussion. In a like spirit was the question of Parliamentary Reform approached by the great men of other times. Nothing can be more ungrateful than to dwell on the vices of the political system under which we live, and to point out its abuses rather than to enumerate its advantages. We are taught by that philosopher, who was called Divine, that we should deal with our country as with our parents—with entreaty and persuasion, and not with bitter contestations, and I, for one, freely admit that we ought never to enter upon the discussion of the princi-
 886 887 888 889 "When shall we three meet again? When the hurly-burly's done— When the battle's lost and won." 890 891 892 893 experimentum fiat vili corpore 894 895 en masse 896 from the Opposition 897 Cheers and a laugh 898 899 in nubibus 900 and cheers 901 "I have reason to know that others as well as the late Ministers arcs prepared to approve of a peace based upon the line of the Adige being-adopted. Your Lordship has disapproved of the terms, but I believe that the terms of which you approve are unattainable, and will continue to be so until the Austrians shall be defeated. I have several times impressed upon your Lordship that such is the fact, and I now take the liberty to bring the matter again under your notice, that I may know how to act, Your Lordship has yet time to produce some good." 902
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Perhaps, Sir, before the debate closes, I may be allowed to say one word with respect to the communication which the Minister of Austria made with regard to Lombardy at the time referred to by the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Whiteside). The mission of M. Ovellard was not for the
 903
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for India to lay on the Table any Minutes or Regulations he has made for the transaction of business in the Council of India, under the 20th section of the Act 21 & 22  Vict.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he had to state in reply to the Question of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Vernon Smith), that he had no objection to lay upon the table the minutes and regulations to which he referred. Those minutes were very brief, and merely related to the division of the Council into Committees for the despatch of business with greater facility, on a plan similar to that which had existed under the Court of Directors. The Council had adopted, with some modifications, the system which previously prevailed. Questions were, in the first place, considered in Committees, and the draught despatches and papers were then laid upon the table of the Council, where they generally remained for a week. Of course this arrangement did not at all affect the power which, after much discussion, had been vested by that House in the Secretary of State of sending out despatches upon his own responsibility through the Secret Department. He admitted that in those comparatively rare instances when despatches whore sent out in that manner there ought to be some indication that they were sent out in the Secret Department. He accepted the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman on that point, and it was merely from inadvertence that such a course had not been already adopted. In point of fact, however, the despatches so sent out would be distinguishable from others, for it was stated with regard to all despatches submitted to the Council that they had been "considered in Council, "and therefore the omission of those words at once showed that a despatch had been
 823 824
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, the only information he had it in his power to give in answer to the first Question was contained in a despatch of Sir Henry Bulwer, in which he stated that orders had been given to repair the roads to Erzeroum, but that he did not apprehend much good would be done, and that the construction of a new road would require considerably more funds than were at the command of the authorities. Sir Henry made a suggestion, to which he (Mr. FitzGerald) thought it was not very likely the Chancellor of the Exchequer would listen —namely, that if the British Government would advance the money the Porte would undertake the work and pay interest, but otherwise the Porte would be ready to make concessions to a private company. With regard to the second part of the Question, the Government were given to understand by the treaty of Tien-tsin, signed on the 15th of June last, that the boundaries between the Russian and Chinese empires were to be ascertained by a commission of engineers. They had no
 825
 MR. BLACK  said, he would beg to ask the Lord Advocate when he will lay his Bill for the repeal of the Annuity Tax on the Table.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he rose to order. As he could speak but once upon the Motion of the adjournment of the House till Monday; he did not think it desirable that he should proceed to answer the Question of the hon. Member for Brighton until he should have an opportunity of knowing whether any other question which might also require a reply upon his part would be addressed to him.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought he could put himself right with the House. He believed that the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) and the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) laboured under a complete misconception. The fact was, that when a Question was addressed in the ordinary way to a Minister there was no Motion before the House, and therefore it was his duty at once to notice it. But at that moment there was a Motion before the House, and, as he could speak but once upon that Motion, he thought it right that before he rose he should have an opportunity of ascertaining whether any further Question might be put to him that would require an answer upon his part. Therefore, he naturally waited until the last moment before he replied to the hon. Member for Brighton.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he found very great difficulty in answering the Question addressed to him—whether, as the authorities at the National Gallery were reported to have expressed their willingness to give a large sum for a picture by Raffael, it would not be desirable that the Government should secure for the nation the famous picture of "The Apollo and Marsyas, "now in the possession of Morris Moore, Esq., the original drawing for which was in the Academy at Venice. He really never heard of the report, and never saw the picture. He was, therefore, called upon to deal at the same time with an hypothesis and a contingency. In what more puzzling situation could a man be? All that he could say was, that, filling the situation which he now had the honour to occupy, he naturally looked with alarm when he heard of large sums in connection with famous pictures; but he at least ex-
 821
 THE CHANCELLOR or THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was the opinion of the Government that it was desirable there should be some public recognition of the great mercies which have been vouchsafed to the country in the suppression of the Indian rebellion, but Her Majesty's pleasure had not as yet been taken as to the particular form in which that recognition should be made.
 MR. COWAN  said, that the hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department had on the preceding day made a statement which he could not think perfectly satisfactory, in reply to a Question which had been put to him by the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Turner) relative to an advertisement which had been issued by the Board of Inland Revenue, inviting tenders for the supply of a largo quantity of paper for postage envelopes. He wished to know whether the Government had sanctioned the course which had been pursued by the Board of Inland Revenue in that matter, and whether they had entered into any communication with respect to it with Mr. M'Culloch, the superintendent of the Stationary Office, whose business it was to superintend all transactions that related to the furnishing of paper to the different public departments?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland whether it is the intention of the Government to equalize the percentage fees upon the sale of property in the Transfer of Land Courts in Ireland, to the amount payable on value under £10,000?
 MR. SALISBURY  said, he would also beg to ask the Secretary of State for India the date on which he received Viscount Canning's Despatch No. 26½ of 1858, and dated the 17th of June; also, if any Minute or Memorandum has been placed upon the books of the Indian Council in respect of the Despatch No. 5. of 1858, and dated the 9th of December; and, if so, whether the Government are prepared to lay a Copy of such Minute or Memorandum on the Table of the House. Me could assure the noble Lord that he was influenced by no party or personal motives in putting these questions. He had entertained a decided objection to the Oude Proclamation, and he was also hostile to what was called the Card well Resolution of last year; but he had been greatly pained at the terms in which the noble Lord's despatch to Lord Canning was couched. He would not say that despatch was insolent, but it was certainly a most inju-
 822
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he was exceedingly sorry if, by any mistake on his part, he had transgressed the rules of the House, or put the House to inconvenience. The fact was that his Bill had been put down for the second reading, and when the Masters and Operatives Bill was called on, several hon. Members came to him one after the other and said to him—"Is not that your Bill?" Overcome by this iteration, and supposing from the similarity of the title that it was his Bill, he moved the second reading. The fact was that, so far from wishing the Bill to be read a second time, he had a great aversion to it, and indeed had given notice to move, on going into Committee, that the Bill should be postponed for six months.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said that, although the hon. Member had induced the House to pass the second reading of a measure on this subject, he thought he should best meet the wishes and expectations of those who desired the settlement of the question by proceeding with the Bill which the Government intended to introduce. He hoped to be able to proceed with it on an early day, but at that moment he could not name the day.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he rose to explain. He merely proposed that a Minister answering Questions, and not any other Member, should be allowed to speak twice or thrice on the Motion for the adjournment.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he also rose to order. It appeared to him that the House was falling into a most absurd practice every Friday evening. He observed that on the other evenings of the week Ministers rose several times to answer questions which were put to them; but on the Friday they could rise but once, and the consequence was, that the Questions addressed to them and their replies to those Questions presented, when reported in the public prints, a most disjointed appearance. He would put it to the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair and the House, whether it would not be better to allow the Minister to answer in its natural order each Question as it was addressed to him on the Friday in the same manner as he replied to the Questions that were put to him during the other days of the week.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it was perfectly true that on ordinary evenings, if two or three Questions were addressed to a Minister, he had the power of rising and answering each of them in its proper order; but no debate could then take place in reference to those questions. Upon the present occasion, however, there was a Motion for the adjournment of the House, and notice was given that several Questions would be put on that Motion being made, hon. Gentlemen wishing to accompany those Questions with certain observations. But if the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) wished to ask him, in the first place, whether anything out of order had taken place
 820
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the hon. and gallant General having given notice of a distinct Motion with reference to his subject, would be out of order in bringing forward a Motion upon the Motion for Adjournment.
 MR. DODSON  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, whether the European Commission, appointed under the 16th Article of the Treaty of Paris, 1856,
 "To designate and cause to be executed the works necessary below Isatcha to clear the mouths of the Danube, as well as the neighbouring parts of the sea, from the sands and other impediments which obstruct them, in order to put that part of the river and the said parts of the sea in the best possible state for navigation—" 814
 MR. ROEBUCK  intimated his opinion that the Chancellor of the Exchequer ought first to answer the Question of the hon. Member for Brighton.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, that two Bills had been introduced; one by the hon. Member for Rye, and the other by the hon. Member for West Surrey. To the latter measure no objection, he believed, was felt in any quarter; but the other was likely to meet with very considerable opposition. It had, however, been read a second time yesterday under a mistaken impression on the part of the House generally that it was a Bill to which they would all be disposed to give an immediate assent.
 817
 MR. CONINGHAM : Perhaps the Chancellor of the Exchequer will be good enough to answer my Question before the House proceeds to another subject.
 MR. CONINGHAM  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether, as the authorities at the National Gallery were reported to have expressed their willingness to give a large sum for a picture by Raffael, it would not be desirable that the Govern-
 818
 MR. W. EWART  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether there is a prospect of the completion of the road from Trebizonde to Erzeroum, important as an opening for British manufactures to the more central parts of Asia; also, whether the Government has information how far the new frontier line of Russia below the River Amoor extends; and whether the Russian Government has occupied a port opposite the south-west of the island of Sagalien?
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he wished to call attention to the sickness and mortality of the troops quartered at Trinidad, and concerning the barracks and the un-healthiness of the locality in which they are situated. He had given notice to move for a copy of sonic correspondence which had taken place.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether Her Majesty has been advised to appoint a day of General Thanks-giving to the Almighty for the restoration of tranquillity in India?
 LORD STANLEY  said, there could be no doubt that the position of the masters in the Indian navy was in many respects anomalous and unsatisfactory; but the question what steps should be taken to improve their condition was included in an-
 915
 MR. WHITE SIDE :—Sir, before the House proceeds to the Orders of the Day I have to ask its indulgence for a few minutes. At the close of the debate on Friday night the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston) said, that I had misstated the proposal made by the Austrian Government with reference to Italy in 1848, and that that offer was only that Lombardy should he constituted a Duchy, under the control of an Austrian Grand Duke. In consequence of the confusion occasioned by the departure of Members from the House, I have been reported to have said that I acknowledged I was mistaken. I made no such acknowledgment, nor do I intend to do so. On the 24th of May, which was a date subsequent to that to which the noble Lord referred, the following offer was made to him, as appeared from paper No. 377 among the documents relating to those occurrences:—
 "BARON HUMMELAUER TO VISCOUNT PALMERSTON, "London, May 24, 1848. "My Lord,—In conformity with the permission which, you were good enough to give mo, I enclose herewith a statement of the principles which would form the basis of an arrangement of the Lombardo-Piedmontese question." (Enclosure in No. 377.) "Lombardy would cease to belong to Austria, and would be free either to remain independent or to unite herself to any other Italian State she-might choose."
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, he rose to state briefly the reasons why he should support the Resolution of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London. It was a very remarkable feature of this debate that not a single Member unconnected with the Treasury Bench had addressed the House who had not, to use the language of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, condemned, "wholesale and retail," the vital and substantial principles of the measure. The Resolution of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, was directed against the three main principles of the Bill. It asked the House to affirm that the enfranchisement contemplated by the Bill was unsatisfactory and inadequate; that the proposed disfranchisement was unjust and a violation of the ancient constitutional franchises of the country; and that the non-extension of the franchise in boroughs doomed to disappointment a large and intelligent class of the community. How had the Resolution been met? it had not been debated merely upon its merits, but the hon. and learned Solicitor General, departing from the ordinary practice of Parliament, had thought it right to impute personal motives to its author. The country had been warned by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Colonies against Americanizing the House of Commons; but he thought that no more effectual mode of Americanizing the debates of that House could be adopted than that of introducing personal attacks into so grave and important a discussion as the present. When the hon. and learned Solicitor General rose on Friday to repel an insinuation made against him by the hon. Member for Dovor, showing that he was rather thin-skinned himself on the subject of personal attacks, he (Mr. Edwin James) certainly
 917 Essay on Parliamentary Government, "My Lords, I can conceive no object of higher or nobler ambition, none more worthy of the anxiety of a true patriot and lover of his country, than to stand in the high and honourable position of the Chief Minister of the Crown and leader of the councils of this great Empire, assisted and supported by colleagues combined with him by unity of sentiment and mutual and personal respect, and with the knowledge that this and the other House of Parliament would give to such a Minister the assurance that, except on most ex-
 918 Hansard, 919 920 municipia, 921 922 923 924 925 England and the English Eugene Aram, 926 927 928
 MR. COWPER  said, that as some persons had, from an answer given by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer a few nights ago, derived the impression that the Government were prepared to enter into a Contract for Mail Service without any reference to the House of Commons, he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty, whether be intends to commit the Government to the expense of a third Mail Service to North America, in addition to the two Mail Services, for which a sum of £176,340 is inserted in the Packet Estimate, before a Vote for this purpose can be submitted in Committee of Supply.
 MR. ELLICE (Coventry)  said, he did not intend to follow the noble Lord into the question of the policy or expediency of the proposition of a Reform Bill by the present Government. They appeared to have no option in the matter, as a reform was recommended from the Throne and brought before the House by Ministers in 1852 and 1854. Therefore, however unfortunate it might he that a question of this kind should fall into the hands of men representing a minority in that House, he acquitted the Government of any want of consideration in acting as they had done. On one point he entirely agreed with the noble Lord—namely, that it would be better to agree on a certain principle of reform, and proceed gradually with that work; for he was not of opinion that it was possible to make large organic changes every twenty years in our history without at last leaving the country no constitution at all. It was vain to say that a great and lasting settlement should now be made. A great settlement was made in 1832, but there had been thirty or forty Motions to alter it since; and let whatever settlement he made, it would not satisfy a large party in that House and a still larger party in the country. In expressing his opinion what course should be pursued after this debate was over, he Would, in the present discussion take care to avoid all party or personal topics, which only distracted attention from the important question at issue. But as a future Government had been speculated upon, and as the hon. and learned Gentleman who spoke that evening (Mr. E. James) said it ought to include all those elements which were necessary to give it strength within and popularity without, he thought the hon. and learned Gentleman should be made the Attorney General of that Government if his counsel and influence could bring about such a combination. He would now proceed to a practical examination of the question before the House. A great deal more notice
 948 pro con., 949 primâ facie 950 951 952 personnel 953 954
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  begged to observe that in the portion of his speech referred to by the right hon. Baronet he was repeating the statement of the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland that the lodger clause would add 15,000 electors to the constituency of Marylebone.
 MR. WHITESIDE : The statement of the noble Lord does not at all affect the truth of what I stated. I have referred to the papers, for I took a great interest in the question at the time, and the House may well conceive that communications respecting the future destinies of kingdoms were not allowed to rest on vague conversation. The fact is, that Lord Ponsonby apprised the noble Lord by a communication from Vienna that the Royal family
 1008
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  understood that the hon. Member for Derby opposed the adjournment of the debate with the view of getting some decision as to its termination. The debate had now lasted five nights, and he thought it would he convenient to come to a general understanding that the debate should close to-morrow night.
 COLONEL FREESTUN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India whether it is proposed to grant to the Masters of the Indian Navy the same privileges regarding Pensions and Furlough to Europe which the other Officers of the Indian Service enjoy?
 LORD ELCHO  said, that the object of the Bill to which he was going to refer was the disestablishment of the Established Church of Scotland ["Question, question!"]; and noble Lords and hon. Gentlemen opposite voted for its second reading, stating that they disapproved the mode in which the question was dealt with, but that they approved the general principle, and would endeavour to amend and alter the Bill in Committee. He was sorry that the Speaker had ruled that he was out of order, but he thought the House would see that his illustration was thoroughly apposite, and that noble Lords were about to do to-morrow, or on whatever day the House divided on this Question, the very reverse of what they did on Wednesday last. He did not intend to weary the House with any lengthened defence of the Bill, but he could not view its principle as being one of uniformity. That was a question for discussion in Committee; but this was a Bill for amending the representation of the people, based upon a principle which he believed to be a sound one—namely, that that representation should rest, not upon population, not upon property alone, but upon interests. He saw many excellent points in the Bill, to which he should be ready to give his assent. The noble Lord the Member for Tiverton himself said on Friday night that there were many good points in the Bill, and there was nothing of which he disapproved, except the uniformity; he agreed with the Government as to the borough franchise, but doubted whether in counties it was desirable to reduce it so low as to £10. It was said that this Bill would not effect a settlement of the question. What was meant by a settlement of the question? Did the Reform Bill of 1832 itself settle the question? He meant settle it so that the question of further constitutional reform was not to be agitated in this country. Why, since 1832 there had been made in that House no less than thirty-five grave reform Motions, affecting the constitution. In 1832 there was one for the ballot and the shortening of Parliaments; and in 1837 there were no less than seven with the same objects. They might rest assured that whatever measure they might pass,
 942 943 s. 944 945 946 "Every man who goes to your Colonies repudiates your policy, repudiates your debt, and thanks Heaven that at last he has found a country where industry can have its reward, and where men calling themselves statesmen are not using every engine of Government to deprive him of the produce of his industry, and to diminish the comforts and independence of his family." "And you, landed proprietors of England, re- member that however many of your countrymen may emigrate your acres remain, and you will have by and by a different tone in this House after another reform in Parliament. Your succession duties will be overhauled, and will not be got rid of so easily as at present. Your property-tax, which you are assisting the Chancellor of the Exchequer to throw over, will come back in an increased proportion. Rely upon it the course which we have pursued for some years has been foolish and wicked. By casting unfair burdens upon the people you will create among them a spirit of discontent and disaffection, and when they have the power, as they shortly will have, to lay taxes upon those who have spent the money, you may depend upon it the pool will not always go to the wall, and the rich will not always escape."—[3  Hansard, 947
 LORD ELCHO  said, that although the Resolution of the noble Lord referred to only two points of the Government Bill, the whole question submitted to the consideration of the House was of the most momentous nature. He should, however, have abstained from taking part in the present discussion had he not been so pointedly referred to by the hon. and learned Member for Marylebone. The future Solicitor General had done him (Lord Elcho) the honour, as the late Secretary to the Admiralty had previously done, to refer to a letter which had been addressed to him by a noble Earl (Earl Grey). He did not propose to defend that letter against the criticisms of the hon. and learned Member. The character of the noble Earl in question stood too high to need defence, and he bore a name which upon this question, at all events, ought to have some weight. If, then, bearing that name the noble Earl had felt it his duty upon this question to take, perhaps, a somewhat unusual course, and to express in writing his views upon reform, that fact only showed how deeply he felt the importance of the question, and the gravity of the error which the noble Lord opposite and his friends were committing in the course they were pursuing. He (Lord Elcho) did not pay how far he agreed with the opinions of the noble Earl, but he did maintain
 933 The Times 934 935 The Times 936 —"Observation, with extensive view, "Surveyed mankind from China to Peru." 937 The Scotsman "Between 1832 and the present time the rents of houses in burghs may be estimated as having risen not less than about 30 per cent; taking it at only 25 per cent, which is certainly below the truth, the £10 franchise of 1859 is equivalent to about a £13 franchise in 1832; or, to express it otherwise, the franchise of to-day amounts, in the money and language of 1832, to a franchise of £7 10 s. 938 939 "The electors had, like himself, probably been much astonished at what had lately occurred. When the present Parliament met no cloud was apparent on the political horizon; but what had occurred? Probably one of the most remarkable men of this or any other day, instigated by passion—possibly by disappointment, possibly by ambition—a man who to the endowments of Ignatius Loyola added not only the tongue of a Demosthenes, but the impulses of a Red Indian, for he scalped his enemies—had organized a very serious opposition to Lord Palmerston. He referred to Mr. Gladstone. Mr. Gladstone had coalesced with that Tersatile and very able gentleman, Mr. Disraeli, for the purpose of expelling Lord Palmerston from power." Cries of 940 "A combination of political parties, not till this last Session united, carried a Resolution declaring the course pursued by our officers in China unjustifiable, and consequently censuring Her Majesty's Government for having approved that course. Will the British nation give their support to men who have thus endeavoured to make the humiliation of their country the stepping-stone to power?"
 MR. W. O. STANLEY : I beg leave to give notice, that in consequence of the very explicit declaration made by the Attorney General for Ireland, in the course of the debate on Friday last, that he should consider a vote in favour of the Resolution of the noble Lord the Member for London as tantamount to a vote of censure, I shall withdraw my notice of a vote of want of confidence in Her Majesty's Government.
 LORD ADOLPHUS VANE-TEMPEST : I think, Sir, it is an instructive study, on these occasions, to look to the strong contrasts sometimes presented between the hustings speeches of hon. Members and those which they subsequently address to this House. A remarkable instance of this discrepancy has just been presented in the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Marylebone (Mr. E. James). At his nomination that hon. and learned Member said that he would enter the House on an independent footing, and would give the three Reform Bills then promised a fair hearing. If Lord Derby brought forward an honest and comprehensive measure, he (Mr. E. James) would offer no factious opposition, nor would he lend himself to the machinations of a remnant of the effete Whig faction, who believed that the people were born to be governed by them, and that they were horn to govern the people. The hon. and learned Member further said, "Let all three Bills—that of Mr. Bright, that of Lord John Russell, and that of the Government—be fairly placed before the people, and let the people's representatives select which they thought best." He (Lord Adolphus Vane-Tempest) now challenged the hon. and learned Member to act up to his own principle, and to give no factious opposition to the Government measure, and to vote against a Resolution the object of which was to prevent the Government Bill, and the only Bill brought forward, from being taken into consideration. It had been suggested by an able weekly journal in reference to the speech of the right hon. Member for Wilts (Mr. S. Herbert) that the question people would ask themselves hereafter would not be "Who was Premier in 1859?" but "Who wished to be Premier in 1859?" and any one who turned back to the  Debates 961 962 963 964 965 966
 MR. BLACK  rose to order, and inquired whether, if the noble Lord gave his view of the Question which was before the
 941
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER :—Sir, it is my duty to answer the question of the right hon. Gentleman. The Contract to which he alludes is not completed, but is at present before the Admiralty, for their consideration. That contract relates to a Service which would not commence this year, and therefore there will be no necessity to take a Vote on account of it.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, in answering the question of my hon. Friend, I would venture to call the attention of the House to the extremely inconvenient manner in which this Bill to amend the Representation of the People is debated. It is debated, if I may use the expression, wholesale and retail. We have had it treated wholesale for four nights in a debate which has been sustained on both sides with unflagging interest and unfaltering power; and I shall be perfectly ready, when the opportunity shall be afforded to me to vindicate the policy and to explain the intentions of Her Majesty's Government. I must however say, in answer to my hon. Friend, as I have already said in answer to a question from an hon. Gentleman on the other side of the House, that I cannot, within the scope of a fair answer, give the information which he desires. Speaking generally, I would say that we have placed before the House a measure which expresses the policy which the Government would recommend. If there are any Gentlemen who think that on the whole the disadvantages of the course which we recommend counterbalance or overweigh
 914
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that subject had been very much considered by the Government; and he had to state that it was not at present their intention to establish a system of Bonded Warehouses in the manufacturing towns.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had entertained an earnest expectation that the debate would close on the following day—but he must say that this was a subject and an occasion for consulting the general feeling of the House, and he had no wish to press for the termination of the debate in opposition to that feeling. There seemed to be an equal indisposition on the two sides of the House that the debate should close the next day, and he would not, therefore, press for its
 1010
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether the plan of uniformity of franchise between Counties and Boroughs is considered by Government to form an essential principle of the proposed Representation of the People Bill, on which the fate of the Bill is to depend; or whether, on the contrary, it is only one of those details which, though forming part of the original suggestions of Government, is to be considered to be open to any alteration or omission in Committee which this House in its wisdom may determine upon?
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he wished to inquire of Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer if Government propose to give Bonding Warehouses to large manufacturing towns.
 MR. HUDSON  wished to ask whether this was part of the system which the noble Lord wished to exercise over the House on Friday nights? whether he was now beginning to exercise a tyranny over the House? He was willing to stop till Christmas, but he intended to have an opportunity of speaking.
 MAJOR EDWARDS  objected to any such understanding. It was all very well for the great guns to go off night after night; but they should recollect that there were other Members who, though they were not of the same callibre, had constituents, and wished to justify the vote they were about to give to them, as it was probable they would soon appear before them. He was anxious to say a few words himself, and he hoped this debate would not close till he had had an opportunity.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that as the names of the Commissioners whom it was proposed to appoint in that case had not yet received the sanction of the Crown, it would be irregular for him to communicate them to the House; and with respect to the second part of the question he had to state that it was proposed the inquiry should be as extensive as possible, and should embrace every subject which could fairly come within the scope of the labours of the Commissioners.
 MR. BRIGHT  rose to explain. He did not mean to say that the right hon. Gentleman did not represent the town voters: what he meant to say was, that the great bulk of the constituency in question was what might be called a rural or agricultural voting, and that therefore they returned the Members.
 MR. SPEAKER :—After the appeal which has been made to me, I trust the House will permit mo to say a few words upon the subject of this form of proceeding by Resolution. The power of moving Resolutions by way of Amendments, instead of being expanded by modern practice, has, in truth, been greatly limited and restricted. it was correctly said by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Carlisle in the course of his speech this evening, that in the early days of his
 1006
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that it would certainly he out of order for the noble Lord to refer to the details of a Question which had been decided on a previous day.
 MR. JOHN LOCKE  congratulated the House and the country on the fact that a Conservative Government had been induced to bring in a Reform Bill—a bad one, he must confess, they had brought in; but still, that they should have brought in one at all was, in his opinion, a matter upon which the country had a right to congratulate itself; because, by doing so, they had elicited from the Ministerial side of the House expressions in favour of Reform, such as those which were usually heard only from that (the Opposition) side of the House—showing that although the present House had not been elected precisely for the purpose of passing a Reform Bill, still that it might fairly be called a reforming House of Commons. One could hardly have expected, in a House elected as the present had been, much anxiety for the extension of the suffrage in boroughs; but still all the Members who had spoken on the Ministerial side of the House had declared themselves in favour of such extension, and had blamed Ministers for rejecting the advice of their two seceders in favour of a £6 borough franchise. That was, in his opinion, a great concession; and he inferred from it that if Her Majesty's Ministers, instead of preserving an inscrutable secrecy, had consulted their own friends, the country would have had a much better Bill offered for its acceptance than that which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had laid on the table. Now, however, as they had brought in their Bill with all its imperfections, and that they knew what was the general opinion of the House, he did not see why they should not make it coincident with that opinion by engrafting on it the principles laid down in the Resolution of the noble Lord the Member for London. There seemed to be some feeling of punctilio in the minds of the Government
 958 959 960
 COLONEL SMYTH  said that, having presented a petition from the City of York in favour of the second reading of the Government Bill, he was anxious to say a few words upon the subject. He felt that the question of reform was one of the most important to which the attention of Parliament could be directed; a single false step in legislation might be productive of
 955 s. s. 956 957
 MR. WESTHEAD  said, as the City of York, which he represented, contained 1,100 county voters, he could not forego his claim to be heard in explanation of his views.
 MR. BASS  said, he was sorry to interfere between the right hon. Gentleman opposite and the House, but be thought that the question had been now very fully debated, and unless there was some kind of understanding that it would be finished soon he should be compelled to divide the House on the question of the adjournment of the debate. For what he could see, hon. Gentlemen were ready to go on till Christmas talking on this question of Reform.
 MR. P. O'BRIEN  said, up to that time not a single Irish Member had spoken.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he could not agree with an hon. Friend who declared that the Resolution before the House was a basis upon which it was impossible to found a discussion of reform. He believed that the discussion which had so long occupied the House, and that seemed likely to go on for the next week or two, was one which would prove an excellent basis for any future discussion of Parliamentary reform. Speeches had been made and opinions had been expressed which would, upon the whole, be satisfactory to
 967 968 969
 MR. CONOLLY  said, that the subject was one of such universal interest that the debate ought not be hurried to a conclusion.
 Mr. GLADSTONE  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. BEAUMONT  said, he could not pretend to the eloquence of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just spoken, and must therefore appeal to the forbearance of the House while in plain and unvarnished language he endeavoured to explain the reasons which would actuate him in the vote he was about to give. He entirely concurred with the hon. and learned Gentleman that they ought not to bandy imputations of personal motives, and he therefore greatly deprecated the allusions of the Solicitor General to the noble Lord (Lord John Russell); but he would remind the hon. and learned Member that when he applied the term "imbecility" to the right hon. Member for Bucks who had led this House with ability for twelve months, he was hardly the man to take the Solicitor General to task for making personal imputations. He (Mr. Beaumont) would not in the least anticipate the defence which would be offered by his noble Friend (Lord Elcho) in respect of the letter which had been addressed to him by Earl Grey; but he was bound to say of an absent Friend who had always treated him with kindness, that the attack which had been made upon Earl Grey was quite uncalled for; and that that noble Earl i had not infringed, or in any way intended to infringe, on the rights and privileges of the House of Commons. He wished now
 929 930 s. 931 s. 932
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, he rose to ask the Lord Advocate whether he is prepared to state the names of the gentlemen composing the Royal Commision appointed to inquire into the working of the Public Houses Act (Scotland), and whether
 913
 Sir GEORGE GREY : I wish to take this earliest opportunity of calling attention to a statement made by the right hon. Gentleman(Sir John Pakington), which it is due to you, Sir, should receive the earliest notice, and which, if unnoticed, would, I think, be calculated to mislead the House on an important point. The right hon. Gentleman said, that having consulted "the highest authority" as to the rules and practice of this House, he was authorized to state that the Resolution moved by the noble Lord the Member for the City of London as an Amendment to the Motion for the second reading of this Bill is unparliamentary and irregular. But I have the best reason for believing that the right hon. Gentleman made that statement under a total misapprehension. You, Sir, being "the highest authority" in this House, there is no doubt that if you, sitting in that chair and presiding over the deliberations of the House had had placed in your hands a Motion which was unparliamentary and irregular, you would, in the performance of the duty which you so ably perform, have refused to put it. The right hon. Gentleman must have spoken under a total misapprehension, for there can be no "higher authority" in this House than you, Sir, our Speaker. But if the right hon. Gentleman refer to any other authority I must deprecate in the strongest terms any such reference, as this House does not recognize any other authority than yours in regulating
 1005
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Mr. Speaker, I do not rise to reply to the speech of my hon. Friend the Member for Pontefract; but if I delay any longer to address you I shall be in danger of not being able to perform that duty. I have waited long and anxiously before I could make up my mind to address the House; and in troublous times it is often no less difficult to know what it is one's duty to do than to perform that duty when we have made up our minds. I certainly did wish not to have seen the day arrive when it would be necessary for this House to reconsider the fundamental principles on which our constitution is based. I took part—a humble part, but a sincere one—both in the preparation and the passing of the Reform Bill of 1832. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in introducing this Bill to the House, used an expression which grated on my ears. He said the statesmen who took part in the Reform of 1832 appeared to him to have treated the subject in many respects "empirically." I can hardly think the right hon. Gentleman used that word in its more invidious sense, or wished to convey that the authors of that Bill were empirics. If it were necessary to defend the authors of that measure, I should refer him to the noble Earl now at the head of the Government of which he is a member, without whose aid we should have experienced great difficulty in carrying the measure of 1832, and I should have to mention such names as those of Lord Grey, Lord Althorp, Lord Melbourne, and Lord Durham. I confidently believe that the memory of these great men will be justified from any such reproach by the verdict of history. But there is another meaning to the word empirical which I am rather disposed to think the right hon. Gentleman intended to attach to it—he probably meant to say, that the measure of 1832 was an experimental measure. The right hon. Gentleman treated it as an experimental measure. I should certainly wish to call to the attention of the House, after an experience of twenty-seven years, that the change effected by that measure was immense. I will call to the recollection of the House that the noble Lord the Member for the City of London in speaking of it described it to us as "a bloodless revolution"—happily, bloodless, but still a revolution. It undoubtedly transferred the centre of power in this country from the aristocracy to the middle classes, and intentionally so trans-
 971 972 973 974 Ancien Régime, "When the history of our Revolution is studied it in apparent that it was conducted precisely on the same principles which have dictated so many abstract dissertations on the science of Government. The same fondness for general theories, for complete systems of legislation, for exact symmetry of law; the same contempt for existing institutions, the same reliance on theory, the same taste for what may be deemed original, ingenious, and new in establishments; the same desire at once to remodel the whole Constitution according to the rules of logic and on an uniform plan, instead of endeavouring piecemeal to amend it. Frightful spectacle! That which is an excellence in a writer is often a great defect in a statesman, and the same things which have frequently led to the production of beautiful romances may lead to the issue of great revolutions." 975 négatif motive 976 977 978 979 "When the poor and the rich have hardly any interests in common, no common grievances, no common occupations, that darkness, which hides the feelings of one from the other, becomes inscrutable, and the two may live for ever side by side without fathoming each other. It is curious to see in what strange security those who occupied the upper and the middle stories of the social edifice lived together up to the last moment when the Revolution broke out, and to hear their ingenious
 980 981 pro tanto, 982 983 984 s. s., 985
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, the House has listened to what has fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Carlisle with the attention which they always give to whatever falls from his lips in this House; and I am bound to admit that the right hon. Gentleman has on this occasion addressed the House in calm and temperate language, to which it is impossible for the Government or the supporters of this Bill to make objection, I think, however, I am not misrepresenting the argument of the right hon. Gentleman when I say that the objection which he has brought against the Bill is grounded throughout on the identity of franchise. He has touched upon the borough freeholders, and he has touched upon it also with reference to the lowering, or to the not lowering, of the occupation franchise in the boroughs. Before I sit down I will advert to this part of the argument of the right hon. Gentleman; but, Sir, at
 986 Interruption. 987 988 989 "That no scheme of reform will be entirely satisfactory to this meeting which does not abbreviate the duration of Parliaments, make some provision for the more equal distribution of seats by disfranchising many small boroughs and the removal of one Member from many places now returning two, extend the franchise to all duly registered occupiers of the whole or part of any house rated to the relief of the poor, also to £10 rentals in counties; and afford protection to the voter by means of the ballot."
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I am very much indebted to the right hon. Baronet for having called my attention to the expression, and thus giving me an opportunity of explaining it. It was very far from my intention to convey any such meaning as that which has been placed upon my words. I did not for a moment mean to convey that I had received from you any opinion on this subject; and if the expression "the highest authority" escaped my lips it did so inadvertently. If by that expression I was understood to refer to one Speaker, I now state, in the most distinct manner, that I intended no reference to the right hon. Gentleman in the chair; and if anything fell from me which intimated that word "highest authority" was not applicable to you only, I most readily apologise for it. What I intended to convey was, that I had serious doubts as to whether the Resolution was in accordance with the regularity of parliamentary proceedings; and that I had referred—out of doors—to what I considered high authorities; and the result was the opinion which. I expressed, that this proceeding on the part of the noble Lord was, to say the least, irregular and inconsistent with the usual practice of Parliament. If I were asked the question, I should certainly say most distinctly that it is competent for the Speaker to put the Resolution. Whether it was originally within the general practice of Parliament to move such an Amendment I cannot say; but I certainly think that inasmuch as the subject matter of the Resolution is germane to the subject of the Bill, it would not be competent to the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair to refuse to put it. I hope this will he a sufficient explanation both to the right hon. Gentleman and to the House.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : The hon. Member certainly left the impression on my mind that he thought I did not represent the town at all. But, however, it is not the first occasion upon which the hon. Gentleman has gone out of his way to make an allusion to my connection with Droitwich. The last time he did so he went a little further, and said I did not represent anybody, for he said I returned myself. Now, to my mind there is a great
 999 1000 1001 1002 s. s., s. s. s. s. 1003 1004
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : The hon. and learned Gentleman certainly used the expression; but neither the hon. and learned Gentleman nor any other hon. Member will deny that this Bill would be a large concession to, and confer a great extension of the franchise on, the borough of Marylebone and other boroughs. It is, therefore, my opinion that the noble Lord,
 990 991 992 and loud cheers" 993 994 995 996 997 998
 SIR ERSKINE PERRY  was also one of the small guns that had been charged during the last two nights, and had not had an opportunity of going oft'. He was bound to say that, as the debate had gone on, he had found hour by hour that the points he had intended to dwell upon had been taken up by others; and, therefore, with the modesty which ought to belong to him, he was willing to let the debate come to a close without intruding his opinions.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I wish to take this opportunity of making a short explanation on a point on which the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland made some remarks, I am told, in the early part of the evening. The hon. and learned Gentleman, I am told, in reference to an explanation which I made on Friday night, in answer to some parts of his speech which referred to the affairs of Italy in 1849, asserted to-night that upon further inquiry he had found that his original statement was perfectly correct. I have not had the opportunity of referring to documents; but, speaking from memory, I wish to say that the proposal which Baron Hummelauer stated to me he was authorized to make was, that Lombardy should be erected into a separate Duchy under an Austrian Archduke in connection with the Austrian empire. At that time the Austrians were entirely out of Lombardy; it
 1007
 MR. GILPIN  said, he wished to inquire of the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, if there is a provision in the Treaty with Japan to prohibit the importation of Opium into that country, and if any steps have been taken to prevent it?
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  replied that one of the stipulations of the Treaty said—
 "The importation of Opium being prohibited, any British vessel coming to Japan for the purpose of trade, having more than three catties' weight on board, the surplus may be seized and destroyed by the Japanese authorities; and any person smuggling, or attempting to smuggle opium, shall be liable to a fine of 15 dollars a catty for each catty smuggled, or attempted to be smuggled."
 GENERAL CODRINGTON  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for War whether, in the offer of additional rank lately acknowledged as due to certain officers of the Land Transport Corps, it is made a condition that they should repay to the Treasury part of their full pay, issued to them in the years 1857 and 1858, for duty actually done with their Regiments in their present rank?
 GENERAL PEEL  replied, that several officers of the late Land Transport Corps, who were promoted by General Orders in the Crimea, pending the confirmation of Her Majesty, had, since the reduction of the corps on the 1st of April, 1857, been serving on full pay in a junior rank, and had now been offered the unattached rank to which they were promoted, from the date of the reduction of the corps, or should they prefer it, the option of remaining in their present position on full pay. It was quite impossible for these officers to draw both full and half pay, and, according to the strict rule of the service, those who accepted the superior unattached rank would have to pay hack the difference between the full pay they had been receiving and the half pay of the superior rank they accepted, in all cases where the full pay
 1042
 LORD STANLEY  said, he took it for granted that the House would not wish that the Debate which was then pending should be interrupted by any other business. But after it should have been brought to a conclusion he would take the earliest opportunity of stating the course which the Government would be prepared to take with regard to the new East India Loan.
 MR. HARDY  said, he regretted to find that, after the long experience the country had had of the benefits of the great Reform Act of the year 1832, his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Yarmouth (Mr. Mellor) should think that at the present moment our public difficulties were so great, and our condition so unfortunate, that an appeal to the people would endanger the stability of our national institutions. For his part he certainly did not entertain any such apprehension. He believed, on the contrary, that there never was a period when, if the House were so disposed, they could proceed with greater freedom than at present from any external pressure to effect a satisfactory settlement of that question of Parliamentary Reform. He knew that great differences of opinion must arise among them in reference to such a subject; and it would be unreasonable to expect complete unison of sentiment in that House. Even upon a matter of very inferior importance, a Bill would be received with very varying amounts of censure or of approbation. Nevertheless upon such a question as that of Parliamentary Reform, it was no discredit to a Ministry that their proposal should be productive of considerable discussion, or that they should ask the Opposition to unite themselves with them in the endeavour to alter it in a manner satisfactory to the House and the country. But the Bill had been scarcely laid on the table when the noble Lord the Member for London rose, and, with that skill which he had ever shown in party tactics, gave it the nickname of a measure of disfranchisement—a nickname by which on no ground it
 1100 1101 1102 1103 1104 1105 1106 1107 1108 1109 "I should be extremely glad if I could devise any means by which the intelligence and property of the working class should be represented together with the property and intelligence of other classes; but do not misunderstand me. I tell you frankly that I have no such means. You can easily enough have a household or a manhood suffrage, but if you were to give either one or the other to the working classes, you would not be giving a representation of the property and intelligence of the working classes side by side with the property and intelligence of other classes, but you would be swamping the other classes, and giving the representation wholly and entirely to the working classes." s s 1110 1111 1112 "Come one, come all, this rock shall fly, From its firm base as soon at I." 1113 1114
 Mr. SERJEANT DEASY  said, he also must protest against the debate being brought to a premature conclusion.
 MR. O'BRIEN  said, he hoped that hon. Members from Ireland would have an opportunity of addressing the House on this question. It was not entirely an English measure but an Imperial one.
 LORD JOHNRUSSELL  said, he thought that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had shown a fair desire to meet the wishes of the House. When the right hon. Gentleman in the early
 1120
 MR. W. O. STANLEY  said, he felt it incumbent on him, after what had fallen from the right hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone), to state why he had put his notice on the table, and why he had withdrawn it so recently. The noble Lord the Secretary for India, early in the debate, intimated in clear outline the course which the Government would be compelled to take with regard to the Resolution if it were carried; but successive speakers afterwards rose and obliterated that outline, and seemed to offer a different issue to the debate. Various plans were suggested by different hon. Members, and it appeared as if the Government were about to repeat their course with regard to the India Bill, giving up the control of
 1088 1089
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER :—Perhaps the House will permit me to refer to the subject of the debate, which was adjourned last night. I think it is very desirable that we should, if possible, come to a determination as to the closing of that discussion. I have never any desire on these occasions to suggest any course but that which I really believe will meet the general wish. Hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the House must feel that my position under these circumstances is always a painful one; and that when a subject of this great importance is brought forward, and a prolonged discussion takes place, a great responsibility attaches to the refusing to those who have a legitimate claim to address the House an opportunity of making their observations. I have received a great many communications, not by any means all from Gentlemen who sit on my own side of the House. I have considered all the circumstances, and I really think that the fairest course to
 1044
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER :—Sir, I do not at this moment see what arrangement I can make for the hon. Baronet. I will take the matter into consideration, and will communicate with him when I have ascertained what opportunity I can offer him.
 MR. COWAN  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Treasury if the Government has given its deliberate sanction to the proceedings of the Board of Inland Revenue, in having recently issued advertisements inviting Tenders for the supply of 1250 reams of writing paper, of an unusually large size, namely, about 67 inches long by 18 inches wide to be manufactured by the said Board into Postage Envelopes, such Tenders to be lodged not later than the 31st current, and the said Board not being bound to accept the lowest Tender; if there is any reason why any Paper that may be required for the public service should not be procured in the usual manner, through the Stationary Office, at the lowest price tendered, with adequate security for the due fulfilment of the contract, and, after minute examination, accepted or rejected, as the case may be; and whether any communication has been held with the Comptroller of the Stationary Office upon the subject, before or after the insertion of the advertisements above referred to.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he wished to ask the hon. Baronet the Member for Ta-
 1043
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he would appeal to the right hon. Gentleman to give the hon. Baronet a day, in order that the House might be relieved from suspense as to the further progress of the measure.
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, the disfranchisement of Sandwich had never been proposed, except by the hon. Member for Birmingham.
 MAJOR EDWARDS  said, after the eloquent speeches which we have heard from both sides of the House, I think it would be presumptuous on my part to detain the House at any length, but I feel it necessary after what has been said to put myself right with the constituency which I have the hon. our to represent. We have already had two Bills for the settlement of this question brought forward by the noble Lord the Member for the City of London; but both of those measures were received
 1079 1080 Cries of "Oh," from Members on the Opposition benches. "—violent delights have violent ends And in their triumph die, like fire and powder Which as they kiss consume." 1081 s. The Times, 1082
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down appeared to think the argument so sound as it had been urged on that (the Opposition) side of the House, that he had not thought it worth while to devote more than two sentences to
 1068 1069 1070 1071 s s s 1072 1073 finesse 1074
 MR. COBBETT  said, he had essayed for four successive nights to catch Mr. Speaker's eye, but in vain, and although he might not have anything very important to say to the House, he should protest against a premature closing of the debate.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, that while he acknowledged the eloquence and ability of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, he thought there was some parts of his speech which would have been better omitted. He had expected that the hon. Gentleman, when he alluded to the Solicitor General's attack upon the motives that induced the noble Lord the Member for London to propose his Resolution, was about to make a fitting  amende 1115 s s 1116 s 1117 s 1118 s
 MR. JOHN LOCKE  said, he should be glad to see the debate finished on Thursday, but if those hon. Gentlemen who wished to speak on the question should not have an opportunity on that evening, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer ought to be made aware that those Gentlemen would persevere in their desire to speak, even though he himself might address the House on Thursday night.
 MR. MELLOR  said, he must congratulate the Ministry on having found an hon. Member to say something in favour of their Bill. The address of his hon. and learned Friend had at least one value—it furnished a striking example of the ease with which arguments might be demolished if it were left to a speaker to state what the arguments of his opponents are. His (Mr. Mellor's) great objection to the Bill was that it introduced non-resident voters to vote in boroughs, for the purpose of swamping the constituencies who resided in those boroughs, and at the same time disfranchised the freeholders resident in boroughs in respect of their right to vote for counties, and so reducing counties to the condition of nomination boroughs. These objectionable points of the measure had been introduced for the first time, were opposed to the constitution of the country, but had been introduced for the purpose of securing the counties. The Government had adopted a course peculiar and significant. They had introduced a Bill which they did not intend to defend. But, in his opinion, when a Government brought in a Bill like this, they ought to defend it in its integrity, and not say, "Let us go into Committee, and there we will settle what alterations you please." Upon such an invitation he should refuse to go into Committee, and therefore he should vote for the Resolution. There was one thing he wished to protest against, and that was the imputations thrown out against that (the Opposition) side of the House, of a
 1098 1099 "After the dissolution of the first Parliament, and when the King was again obliged to summon a new one, there was observed a marvellous change in the countenances of many Members since they met before in the House; and some men who, six months before, were of very moderate tempers, now talked in another style of things and persons, and said they must be now of another temper than they were in the last Parliament."
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, that, although the Bill was on the Orders for the next day, he apprehended that there was not much chance of its coming on then. If he were to put it off for four or five weeks, that would be practically to delay legislation on the subject for another year. If the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would give him an early day in the following week he had no objection to postpone his Bill till such a day.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, he would be ready to communicate with the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the subject of the day when the Church Rate Bill was to be proceeded with.
 MR. WESTHEAD  said, that—representing, as he did, a city in which there
 1076 1077 1078
 MR. MACAULAY  said, he felt strongly on the general policy and the justice of the principles of this Bill; and as he had also very decided views with regard to what he considered to be the impropriety, the impolicy, and the injustice of the Resolution, he was anxious to state very briefly the grounds upon which he was about to give his vote. The right hon. Member for Oxford (Mr. Cardwell) had on Friday evening congratulated the House upon the altered circumstances under which they were now discussing this question as compared with the circumstances of 1832. His right hon. Friend said, "Now we are in a condition to enter into a calm and scientific consideration of the principles on which we shall alter the foundations of the constitution of this House." He had hoped, after such an exordium, that the right hon. Gentleman was not about to give a vote, the effect of which would be to suffocate the possibility of a discussion of the principles propounded by the Government. The principle of the Bill was, as he understood it, to effect a very wide extension of the suffrage throughout the entire country, in the boroughs as well as in the counties. It struck him that in the speeches of hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House the measure had been regarded too much bit by bit, as regarded particular provisions in some cases relating to counties, and in others to boroughs, as the case might be. But, looking broadly at the general feature of the measure, he saw that it provided for the enfranchisement of the whole of the community, so far as the Bill extended. The population to be directly and for the first time affected by the provisions of the Bill were 10,500,000 in the counties, against 7,500,000 in the now represented boroughs. It was pro-
 1090 1091 1092 s 1093 1094 1095 1096 "Fair Sir, you spit on me on Wednesday last; You spurned me such a day; another time You called me dog; and for these courtesies I'll lend you this much money." 1097
 MR. COLLIER  said, that the right hon. Member for the University of Oxford had made a powerful speech in favour of the Resolution of the noble Lord the Member for London, but according to his usual practice of speaking on one side and voting on the other, had concluded by declaring his intention to vote against it. The right hon. Gentleman urged that Gatton and Old Sarum ought to be restored, because without Gatton, Pitt would not have been returned to Parliament, and without future Grattons we could expect no future Pitts; and then the right hon. Gentleman went on to say, that he would vote for the Bill of the Government which restored neither Gatton nor Old Sarum. This was a fair specimen of the vein of logic which ran through the right hon. Gentleman's speech. It appeared to him (Mr. Collier) that the principle of the noble Lord's Resolution had been acknowledged on both sides of the House, while that of the Bill was defended only by the occupants of the Treasury bench, whose arguments were conflicting and self-contradictory. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Colonies argued that to admit the working classes to the franchise would be to destroy the British constitution, and to hand over the Government of the country to a pure democracy. He regarded the £10 franchise as the bulwark of the constitution; and pictured to himself, as a consequence of its removal, the assembling within those walls of a Congress of demagogic delegates representing not the cultivated intelligence of the country but only the ignorance and fury of the masses, bent on the overthrow of our institutions, and eager to trample upon the Crown. On the other hand, the
 1083 Examiner 1084 1085 Cries of
 MR. H. PALMER  said, that hardly any one Member who had spoken from that (the Ministerial) side of the House had appeared entirely to approve of the Bill, and he must confess there were some parts of it to which he himself strongly objected. Its main features were uniformity and the disfranchisement of the 40s. freeholders; and he objected to both. As regarded the proposed uniformity, he thought that if it were insisted on, it would lead, after a short period of time, to a further reduction of all the franchises. In support of this opinion he would refer to the speech of the hon. Member for Birmingham, who had expressed his conviction that a downward tendency of the franchise must be the result of the adoption of the principle of uniformity. With regard to the 40 s 1075
 MR. COLLINS  said, he thought it would be quite time enough to decide whether the debate should be adjourned or not on Thursday.
 MR. GLADSTONE : The hon. Gentleman would, no doubt, be prepared to show strong reasons, not why other boroughs should not be disfranchised, but why Sandwich should be retained. If an extensive measure of disfranchisement was introduced, we should have sixty, or seventy, or eighty speeches from hon. Members, showing why his own borough should not be disfranchised; but though the speeches would be single, the votes of the representatives of the boroughs proposed to be disfranchised would be combined in the division; and what would become of the Reform Bill introduced with a magnificent scheme for the redistribution of seats? But there is more in the matter than this. I must frankly own it appears to me that to proceed far in the disfranchisement of small boroughs is a course injurious to the efficiency of the House of Commons. You must not consider in this matter the question only of the electors. You must consider quite as much who are likely to be the elected. And permit mo to say that the time has come when, in the examination of any scheme of Reform, it is of vital and capital importance that this matter should be brought fully under the view of the House. Let me point out that
 1055 History of William III 1056 substrata Some cries of 1057 1058 1059 from the Opposition side of the House 1060 1061 "I am asked why I do not, instead of proposing this Resolution, vote against the second reading of the Bill? My answer is, that if I were to do so, my conduct would be liable to misinterpretation. It would be supposed, if I voted against the Bill, that I was opposed to the £10 occupation franchise in counties."  bon fides 1062 1063 1064 1065 "Ostendent terris hunc tantùm fata, nee ultrà Esse sinent." 1066 1067
 MR. GLADSTONE : It appears to me, Sir, that there are other remarkable features in this debate besides the great ability with which it has been conducted, and among them all I know none so remarkable as the singular accordance of opinion on both sides of the House—I may say, with the exception of official speakers, among all those who have spoken—with respect to the great question of Parliamentary Reform. I do not say that there are no shades of difference upon it, but when we compare the opinions of those who are disposed to give the least with the opinions—at any rate, so far as they have been avowed—of those who are disposed to give the most, we find they he within such moderate and reasonable limits as to afford, one would hope, the very best prospects for an early and satisfactory settlement of the question. In point of fact, Sir, I may venture to say that there is no difference perceptible—I do not refer now to the particular features of the present Bill, but to the general question of Reform—between the speakers on the two sides of the House; and were an hon. Member of this House blindfolded during the debate, I would almost defy him to say from what quarter their addresses respectively had come. It is recorded of the oldest traveller whose voyages have come down to us that he arrived at a place so remote, that he lost all power of judging of the points of the compass, and the same observation is applicable to the present debate on the subject of Reform, with the single difference that, instead of its being at a place immeasurably remote, the point where our differences are lost sight of is in the centre of the British House of Commons. Again, I could not help being struck with what fell from my hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) upon this subject. He selected in the course of his speech, one address from those which had preceded his own for commendation, and three—shall I say for anathema or for censure? The speech which he commended was the speech of a county Member on this side of the House—I mean the hon. Member for Dorset (Mr. Sturt)—a gentleman, I believe, of unsuspected orthodoxy in his political creed. The
 1046 1047 1048 1049 1050 1051 1052 1053 1054
 MR. COX  said, he wished to have an opportunity of explaining the reasons which would influence him in the vote he was about to give, as they might be peculiar ones.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, there were a number of plain men like himself who also desired to speak upon this truly important question. He had vainly endeavoured to catch the Speaker's eye, but of course he had to give way to more important Members. He trusted that men of business, like himself, would have an opportunity of offering their opinions before the debate closed.
 MR. DU CANE  moved the Adjournment of the debate.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, he thought it was only fair to the Irish Members that they should have an opportunity afforded them of expressing their opinions upon this important question. If, however, it was intended that the debate should
 1119
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that it would not be convenient to adjourn the debate to Wednesday. In the absence of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he could not give any undertaking to bind his right hon. Friend. The House would do his right hon. Friend the justice to admit that he had shown no disposition unduly to cut short the debate. If on Thursday it appeared that there were still many hon. Members to speak, he had no doubt his right hon. Friend would endeavour, as he had done, to meet the wishes of the House.
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, that the Government had brought forward this measure in the hope that it would be received at any rate as a settlement of the question by all parties. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Colonies had stated to the House that a Conservative Government could not be expected to bring forward a Bill which would in its nature and traditions entirely content hon. Gentlemen professing the opinions of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just spoken; but they did hope, considering how long this question had been in suspense, and how very unfortunate and injurious to the best interests of the country it was that the minds of the people should be in a chronic and perpetual state of agitation on this question, that the Bill which they tended to the House would be received as a fair concession on their part, and as evincing a sincere desire to settle a difficult and embarrassing question. The hon. Gentleman the Member for South-
 1086 1087
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that, in consequence of communications which he had had with the hon. Gentleman, and in consequence of some representations which had been made by some of the largest manufacturers, this matter had been referred to the Comptroller of the Stationary Office, and the Treasury were now communicating with the Board of Inland Revenue upon the subject. In the meantime they had directed that Board to suspend the acceptance of Tenders until it was decided what course should be adopted.
 SIR ERSKINE PERRY  in moving an Address for Copy of Financial Despatches between the Government of India and the Secretary of State for India, respecting new loans required for India said, he would take that opportunity of asking a question in reference to the Indian Loan Bill, and to the course which the noble Lord the Secretary for India proposed to take now that a new loan had been announced. Would a new Bill be introduced, or would the loan be obtained under the Bill now before the House?
 MR. MONCRIEFF  brought in a Bill to amend the Law of Scotland in regard to the relationship of Husband and Wife.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, that with respect at all events to England, he thought such a change in the law as that which it was proposed to effect by the Bill which was thrown out by the House of Lords last night would prove most disastrous; and, entertaining that view, he had given notice of a Motion for a Return of all cases in which juries in England had been discharged for want of unanimity. He believed, in point of fact, that those cases were very few indeed in number; and it had been his intention when he obtained the Return in question to found a Motion upon it to the effect that the House was of opinion that any departure from the present practice of requiring unanimity in juries would be disastrous to the country, would create confusion, and prove highly detrimental to the administration of justice. The Bill of the Lord Chief Justice, however, having been lost in the House of Lords, could not now come before the Commons for discussion; and, inasmuch as his object was answered by the premature defeat of the measure, it would not be necessary for him to persist in his Motion.
 Mr. STUART WORTLEY : After the expressions of opinion which have fallen from the Lord Advocate and from my hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Moncreiff), who are both very high authorities on the practice and experience of the courts of law in Scotland, I have not the slightest doubt of the de-desirability of the proposal now made by the hon. and learned Member for Greenock. I am anxious, however, to guard against any misapprehension, and I therefore beg to state, that however desirable an alteration of the law of England may be in reference to the unanimity of juries in civil cases, in regard to criminal cases, I perfectly agree
 1134 1135 tales
 MR. BOUVERIE : There is only one remark I would wish to make before the Bill is read a second time. I approve of the object of the measure; but the Bill itself, as I read it, seems to me to be much too widely and generally drawn. The last clause allows the powers given by the Bill to be exercised in any judicial Court whatever. No doubt this is a very desirable power for the superior Courts to possess in any one of the three kingdoms; but I do not think it desirable that the Courts of inferior jurisdiction, such as the County Courts and Courts of Quarter Session, should have the power. I therefore hope my hon. and learned Friend will consent in Committee to limit his Bill to the superior Courts.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL : I quite
 1141
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he entirely agreed with the noble Lord in the expediency of the course he proposed to take in reference to his own Bill. The number of questions and points involved in the Bill were such as to render it most advisable that they should be first dealt with by a Select Committee. Indeed, the House would hardly be in a position to do justice to the entire subject without the aid such a Committee would afford. In regard to the Government Bill which had come down from the House of Lords, and was waiting for a second reading in that House on Friday next, he proposed that it should be then read a second time  pro formâ.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, the subject was one which excited the greatest interest throughout the country, and it was most desirable that some measure should be passed in the present Session. The subject had already been inquired into, and he was persuaded that if the Committee were to be allowed to enter into an examination of witnesses, there would be no Bill on the subject during the present Session.
 MR. MOFFATT  said, he also was glad the Bill was to be referred to a Select
 1143
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said,
 1144
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he should not oppose the second reading of the Bill. The object of the measure was to open the court to barristers generally, and to solicitors. With regard to the first of these objects no difference of opinion existed. It was universally admitted it was for the public interest that the court should be thrown open to advocates of all classes. Perhaps, however, an objection might be made to opening the court to solicitors; and then came the question of compensation. It appeared to him that it would be inconvenient to enter into a discussion of that question at that moment; and he would, therefore, suggest that the whole matter should be loft to Her Majesty's Government. The subject was under the consideration of the Government,
 1147
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he did not propose to enter upon the general question of the policy of the Mortmain Laws, and he was certainly not inclined to relax them. Undoubtedly, if the Bill went as far as the hon. Gentleman's speech he should not assent to the second reading, but he found that its object was simply to obviate a construction of the Mortmain Act which invalidated bequests of an unobjectionable character. He should not, therefore, object to its being read a second time; but he must at the same time observe that the Bill involved questions of detail which would require very careful consideration in Committee.
 LORD NAAS  promised to frame a clause to effect this object.
 MR. ESMONDE  defended the clause.
 LORD NAAS  said, that if the clause were not agreed to the sellers might pitch their articles in the streets or any where else than in the market. With competition of this sort it was not likely that the owners of a market would expend money in improving it. The clause was essentially a poor man's clause, inasmuch as it provided that corn, cattle, butter, and other merchandise should be brought to one common centre. All the evidence taken before the Committee showed that the present confusion which reigned in Irish towns on market days ought to be put an end to.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he was quite satisfied that the course now taken was the only way to obtain a Bill on this important subject which would he at all satisfactory to the House or country. The subject was so important that it deserved the consideration of one of the ablest and most comprehensive Select Committees that could possibly be appointed. He would suggest that the Committee should have power to call witnesses, who might be able to give both information and advice.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, since the second reading of this measure he found there had been so many suggestions made, and so many points raised, that he thought there would be great difficulty in discussing them properly in a Committee of the whole House until the Bill had been first considered by a more select number of hon. Members. He was therefore inclined to accept the proposal of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Bouverie) to refer the Bill to a Select Committee. He did not know what course the hon. and learned Attorney General intended to take with respect to the Debtor and Creditor Bill. He would suggest to the hon. and learned Gentleman that not only this Bill, but also the Bill from the House of Lords, should be referred to the same Select Committee. If that course should be adopted he hoped that the Select Committee would consist of persons who were fully competent, from their legal knowledge and mercantile experience, to come to a right conclusion upon the matter. He should therefore take leave to move that the Bankruptcy and Insolvency Bill be referred to a Select Committee.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that he quite concurred in the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary. If the Select Committee, in going through these Bills, should think further evidence was necessary, they could apply to the House for power to call witnesses; but to give them that power in the first instance might induce them to think that they ought not to confine their attention to the Bills, but ought to embark into an inquiry as to what should be the basis of legislation on the subject.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he should be only too happy to avail himself of the suggestions which had been made, and he would Amend the Bill in accordance with them when the Bill went into Committee,
 MR. DUNLOP , in moving that this Bill be now read the second time, said, Sir, I have reason to hope that hon. and learned Gentlemen who have seats in this House will be united in support of the principles of this Bill, which has reference to the ascertainment of the law in England when a question involving that law is raised in a Scotch Court, and  vice versâ. 1136 1137
 MR. DUNLOP , in rising to move that this Bill be now read a second time, said
 1121 1122 1123 1124
 MR. COWAN : I once had the honour of acting upon a jury as foreman, or what would be called in Scotland chancellor. The object of the cause was to determine the value of  solum solum 1133 solum solum.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he rose to move the Second Reading of this Bill, its object being to open the practice in the High Court of Admiralty to all Serjeants and barristers-at-law, attorneys, and solicitors. In the Probate and Testamentary Administration Bill of last year he had proposed a clause which met with the approbation of the House, and was passed, declaring that no compensation ought to be given to the proctors for any alleged loss they might sustain by the opening of the Admiralty Court. When the Bill went up to the other House, that clause was struck out of the Bill without his knowledge. When that Bill became an Act he was greatly surprised to find his clause omitted. He had received information upon which he
 1145
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that in the absence of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Durham (Mr. Atherton) he rose to move the second reading of this Bill. No less than four Mortmain Bills had been passed by that House which the movers had not succeeded in carrying through the other House of Parliament. The object of this Bill was to remove some technical difficulties which arose under the 9th Geo. IV., and which stood in the way of settlements and devises for charitable purposes; and he trusted that it would be committed to some noble Lord who would see what were the difficulties of passing such a measure through the other branch of the legislature. In Scotland real estate of the value of £400,000 had recently been left by a deceased gentleman chiefly for charitable purposes, and as the law of Scotland did not interfere with the will, the bequests took effect. In Ireland, where, to use the mildest term, the Protestants believed that the people were more susceptible of influences brought to bear at the deathbed, the only restriction on a devise by will of real property for charitable uses was that provided by the 16th section of the Act of 1844, which required that the will should be made three months before the death of the testator, and that the will should be registered in Dublin; while in England there was an absolute prohibition to the devising by will of real property for charitable uses. He thought, that an amendment of the English law in this respect was absolutely necessary, and the Bill would remove the difficulties which were now experienced by charitable persons who
 1148
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, he agreed with the noble Lord (Lord Naas) that the clause was a poor man's clause. Reject it, and it would be impossible for any party to come forward and give the accommodation which it was the object of the measure to provide. If sellers were to be permitted to pitch their articles in the streets, and not compelled to carry them to the market, the Bill might as well be at once abandoned.
 MR. MACKIE : It seems to me that when we argue this question upon general principles, we go upon the basis that human nature is different in Scotland and in England. If the Bill which was lost last night in the House of Lords had come down to this House, and had been discussed, I have no doubt that we should have had a vast variety of opinions upon it; but I cannot but think that it is more reasonable that we should be bound by the decision of the majority of a jury than that we should insist upon obtaining that which we really never can obtain—namely, perfect unanimity on the part of juries. I can bear testimony to the great advantage which the decision by a majority possesses over the principle of perfect unanimity. I resided for several years in one of our colonies, in a position in which I had a good opportunity of judging with respect to this matter. There we had a mixed community of English, Scotch, and Irish. The colony I allude to is New South Wales. Sixteen years ago the system in New South Wales was the same as that which now exists in England; it was based upon the principle of the perfect unanimity of the jury. I had the honour at that time to fill a position in the colony which enabled me to introduce the principle of the Scotch system; and I may observe that the introduction of that principle did not in any degree alter the general jurisdiction cither of the criminal or the civil law. Instead of the old practice of perfect unanimity, we introduced the system which it has been stated has effected such great good in Scotland, namely, the decision of jury cases by a majority of three-fourths of the jury after a deliberation of six hours. In the Bill which was necessary to establish that sys-
 1131
 MR. MONCREIFF : I wish, Sir, to say one word with respect to this very important measure. We have now in Scotland tried the experiment of having in civil cases a verdict returned by a majority of nine to three, and in criminal cases we have long had a jury of fifteen, and have had the cases decided by a simple majority. As regards the working of the system pursued in civil cases, by which the verdict is returned by a majority of nine to three, I can say with the greatest possible confidence, that the only difficulty or difference of opinion that has arisen with regard to the efficacy of the system, has been in consequence of the long period of time during which the jury is obliged to be detained before they are permitted to give in their decision. There are very few-cases, indeed, in which the juries in Scotland have separated without coming to a determination one way or the other; there are few cases in which they have returned a verdict in which there has been a minority of three; but in all cases in which there has been a difference of opinion to that extent, it has been perfectly obvious that had the time been shortened to three hours instead of extended to six, the verdict would still have been returned by a majority of nine against three. The principle of insisting upon a jury returning a unanimous opinion has always appeared to me to be contrary to common sense. When
 1125 1126
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : I can assure the hon. and learned Gentleman who has introduced this Bill that in my opinion he has earned for himself, and I believe has received, the greatest credit from the people of Scotland by the change which he introduced into the law in respect to the trial by jury four or five years ago, and I cordially assent to the further change which he has proposed upon the present occasion. Entertaining that view, it will not be necessary for me to detain you for more than a few minutes on the question. At the same time I think it right, holding the position I do, to state shortly my view, that we are not here to discuss the question whether or not a jury, under the present system, is the most appropriate tribunal for the purpose of determining civil actions in Scotland, or whether it would be better that the principle of the unanimity of juries should be adopted. It appears to me that the laws of the country which have existed for so considerable a time have so affected the customs and habits of the people, and have so influenced the train of thought and the direction of their mind, that it is very important, before we consent to any alteration of the laws, that we should most carefully consider whether we are about to alter them in accordance) with the habit of thought which influences the nation, or whether we are about to make a change which, in consequence of that habit of thought, it is not very probable they would approve. I am not surprised at all that it is considered a matter of great doubt and difficulty in England whether it would be wise that a change should be introduced into the system of trial by jury which should have the effect of enabling juries to return a verdict in
 1127 1128
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : I think it right that I should say a few words before the House agrees to the second reading. I cordially approve the principle of the Bill, but I am anxious to say nothing at present respecting its details, as all questions of detail can be dealt with in Committee. There is, however, one matter to which I may call the attention of my hon. and learned Friend. The preamble of the Bill makes the measure to apply to Her Majesty's dominions, which of course include the Colonies. I am not quite certain whether my hon. and learned Friend wishes to extend his Bill to the Colonies or not. If he does, I would remind him that this inconvenience may arise—he gives an appeal to the House of Lords which cannot be rendered available in the case of the Colonies.
 MR. SPAIGHT  said, he was of opinion that if the clause were omitted the Bill would be deprived of its chief value.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, he would recommend the withdrawal of the Motion for omitting the clause, and that the point should be reserved until the Bill was reported.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD : My hon. and learned Friend who introduced this Bill did me the honour to consult me respecting the expediency of extending it to the sister country. I perfectly agree with him that the proposal he makes would effect a great improvement, and I only regret that the case mentioned by the hon. and learned Member for Wallingford (Mr. Malins)—namely, the case of foreign law —will not be met by it. I trust that if the change is made, it will be found to work well, and that some means will be devised whereby it may be extended to the law of foreign countries, and we may thus be saved from the evils which we at present experience. The absurdity of the present system is this. If in an Edinburgh Court a question of English law arises, or in a Court in London a question of Scotch law arises, we treat England or Scotland precisely as though they were foreign countries. An important question of Scotch law arose before Sir Edward Sugden, the present Lord St. Leonards, when Chancellor of Ireland, and he had first to determine whether it should be decided by  vivâ voce 1140
 MR. MELLOR : I merely rise to express, to a great extent, the same sentiments which have been expressed by my hon. Friend behind me, in reference to the unanimity of juries in civil cases. I regret that we shall not have an opportunity of considering that subject in this House, and I very deeply regret the loss of the Bill of the Lord Chief Justice in the House of Lords. In most of the cases upon which the decision of a jury is given, I cannot help thinking that the unanimity is more apparent than real. I perfectly agree with the lion, and learned Gentleman below
 1132 modus operandi.
 MR. VANCE  observed, that if the Committee were composed of lawyers and experienced mercantile men it would not be necessary to call witnesses, the hearing of whose evidence would prolong the inquiry indefinitely. The mercantile community of Ireland were anxious for the passing of an English Bill on this subject, because they were aware that it would form a basis for legislation for Ireland.
 MR. MALINS  said, he also concurred in the propriety of referring the Bill to a Select Committee. If evidence were to be gone into, however, he should much prefer the appointment of a Royal Commission to a Committee. Still, considering the mass of evidence already before the House, on the whole he should prefer to adopt the recommendation of the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Headlam), and proceed with the Bill at once.
 MR. MALINS  was quite sure that the House would not desire to proceed with this Bill under a misapprehension of the facts. Hon. Members would recollect the circumstances under which the Probate Administration Bill was amended, so as to give compensation to the proctors for the destruction of their business which they considered that measure would occasion. During the passage of the Bill, but at a late period of the Session, the hon. Member for Sheffield proposed a clause, the effect of which was to open the Admiralty Court to the profession, without giving the proctors any compensation. As, however, the Bill itself did not relate to the Admiralty Court, it was strenuously objected the clause of the hon. and learned Gentleman was quite inapplicable. The Attorney General of the day, however, reluctantly gave way, and permitted the clause to pass. He (Mr. Malins) then contended, that if that Court were to be opened, compensation should be allowed to the proctors who would suffer by such an arrangement as well as to the proctors immediately damaged by the Probate Administration Bill. The Bill, however, left the House with the clause of the hon. and learned Gentleman added to it. It was, however, omitted in the House of Lords, and, in contradiction of what had been stated by the hon. and learned Gentleman, he could say that it was struck out on the representation of the Judge and officers of
 1146
 MR. MALINS :—My hon. and learned Friend the Member for Greenock did me the honour to show me the Bill before he brought it into the House, and I at once stated that I thought it had a most reasonable object in view, and that I trusted it would succeed in accomplishing it. My hon. and learned Friend has correctly stated that whenever a question of the law of another country arises, the present mode of deciding it is to take the opinion of advocates, or to call witnesses to prove what the law is. Of course, upon all such subjects there is a great conflict of opinion. Indeed so many difficulties are in the way, that the learned Judges have ultimately to interpret the law in their own way as they best can. I may mention a case which occurred in reference to the law of France. An Englishman who had resided for some time in France left a large property to Southampton, but the next of kin raised the question whether the will properly passed the property. The point for decision was whether a man residing in Calais for fifteen years had not ceased to be a domiciled Englishman, and had become a domiciled Frenchman, and that, consequently, the will not being executed according to French law, was null and void. Now, a great number of persons are admirers of codification, and say it will be a happy day for England when she gets a code. Now, this particular case was argued upon the  Code Napoleon, 1139 vice versâ,
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he was glad that the noble Lord had determined to refer his Bill to a Select Committee. He could also assure the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General that the large constituency which he represented reposed the greatest confidence in him, and felt convinced that the interests of the commercial community would be properly attended to so long as the matter rested in his hands.
 MR. LOWE  said, he quite agreed that it would not be necessary to go into the general law of bankruptcy; at the same time there were many questions of practice with respect to which it would be absolutely necessary to obtain information, in order that the Committee might deal with the two Bills in a satisfactory manner. He could not, therefore, see that any good purpose would be attained by turning the Committee adrift without the power of calling witnesses.
 MR. GREER  moved aproviso to Clause 19, restricting the tolls to an amount sufficient to meet the necessary expenditure of the market.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, that the proposal contained in the clause was in accordance with the law of this country, to the effect that the person who exposed goods for sale in any other place than his own shop or premises during the continuance of the market, should be liable to a penalty of 40 s.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, that the only point on which there was a difference of opinion was, as to whether the Committee should take evidence or not. That was a matter on which the Committee could exercise a judgment of their own, and could, if they thought fit, apply at any moment to the House for power to examine witnesses. It might, perhaps, be desirable to obtain evidence on minor points of the Bill, though not as to its general principles. The matter, therefore, had better be left to the discretion of the Committee. With respect to the noble Lord who had brought this subject before the House, he begged to offer to him his humble tribute of respect for the attention he had bestowed on this important matter.
 MR. BUCHANAN : Sir, having had frequent calls made upon me, and having frequently acted as a juryman myself, this House will perhaps permit me to make a single observation upon the Bill now before us. It has been said that there having
 1129 1130
 MR. COGAN  moved the omission of Clause 29, on the ground that it made it compulsory upon buyers and sellers to have recourse to the public market.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, that the Official Report on the subject had not yet arrived; but, having heard a few days ago that yellow fever still raged very seriously at Trinidad, he had applied to the Secretary of State for the Colonies for his sanction to the withdrawal of the Troops from that station. Orders would go out by the next Mail, directing the commanding Officer at Barbadoes to consult with the Governor of Trinidad, with a view to the withdrawal, if possible, of the Troops from the latter Colony.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL : I hope, Sir, although I admit the course is not regular, that after what my noble Friend has said, the House will indulge me so far as to allow me to say a few sentences for myself. When words have been used in debate which have occasioned, or which may occasion, misunderstanding, the person from whom they have fallen cannot feel otherwise than graceful for the opportunity of removing that misunderstanding. Now, in the observations which I took the liberty of making to the House on the Amendment proposed by the noble Lord the Member for London to the Motion for the second reading of the Representation of the People Bill, I had occasion to comment on the objects which, as it seemed to me, that Amendment, as distinguished from the usual manner of proceeding upon such an occasion, was meant to secure. I thought then, and I still hold the opinion, that not only was that view of the subject legitimate, but that it was one which it was absolutely necessary to consider; and in considering it I used the words to which my noble Friend has referred—"political aggrandisement," I think, and "private advantage." I hope the House will allow me to state distinctly the sense in which I used those words. By the words "political aggrandisement" I desired to imply that political importance which attaches to, or which is supposed to attach to, any public man who, upon a great question of public policy, leads a successful assault against the Ministry of the day. In using the words "private advantage" I was referring—I had referred, in point of fact, at some length—to the division—the admitted division—into
 1156
 SIR EDWARD BULWER LYTTON  was understood to answer in the affirmative.
 MR. GILPIN  said, that concurring in the general desire to bring the debate to a conclusion, he would very briefly state his reasons for the vote he intended to give. He should vote for the Resolution of the noble Lord upon the same principle, if for none other, that the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) declared he was bound to vote for the Motion of the right hon. Member for Ashton (Mr. Milner Gibson) last year—that he could not say no to a Resolution that was as true as Gospel. He objected to going into Committee upon the Bill, which would have the practical effect of negativing the Resolution, because he could not call it a Reform Bill at all. If he were put to his choice of that Bill or none, he would unhesitatingly prefer none at all. They were told that the Bill might be made whatever the House pleased in Committee, but they had no assurance that when the House had turned it into a Bill which they approved, the Government would use its influence to pass it in "another place." He, however, did not mean to express by his vote a general want of confidence in the Government. Like the hon. Member for Halifax, he did not want to see a change of Government at the present moment, or to witness again the humiliating spectacle, in the present divided state of the Liberal, party, of the nominal head of that party being placed in power, and within a fortnight afterwards calling upon Gentlemen opposite for aid against his own so-called supporters. The hon. Member for Northumberland (Mr. Beaumont), had in touching terms deplored the neces-
 1210 1211
 MR. H. BERKELEY :—Sir, as this is a question which I have taken a prominent part in advocating for many years past, I trust to the courtesy of hon. Members to allow me to address a few observations to the House. First, I would request my hon. Friend (Mr. Wyld) not to press his Motion. Sir,—["Divide!" "Go on!"], I have always consulted those hon. Gentlemen who have done me the honour to place mo in the front of the battle in this question as to the mode in which it should be brought forward; and I find it is the general opinion of the leading men of that particular party that it will be detrimental to the ballot to introduce it to the House in this manner. It is not, however, in deference to any man or any set of men that I have come to the conclusion that this is not the time or the occasion for propounding it. I do not think a man is called on to support any question, however important, if he be of opinion that it is brought forward in an improper manner. ["Divide!"] If my hon. Friend will give notice of a substantive Motion on this question, it shall have my cordial support. ["Divide!"] But if he persists in dividing now, I will certainly not go into the same lobby with him. I will not vote against the ballot, but I will certainly withdraw from the House. I entreat the hon. Gentleman not to place this question in this disadvantgeous position. [ Loud cries of and laughter.
 LORD ELCHO :—In justification—["Order!"].
 LORD ELCHO :—In my own justification, then, I beg leave to state that in defending the hon. and learned Gentleman I did not imagine that anything he said could affect the private character or personal honour of the noble Lord.
 LORD ELCHO :—Sir, I wish, with the permission of the House, to say a few words by way of explanation of a statement which I made in reference to certain expressions that fell from the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General at the close of his speech on the Bill for
 1154
 LORD ELCHO :—What I was going to say was, that so far from that impression having been left on my mind, I have too high an opinion of my hon. and learned
 1155
 GENERAL BUCKLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department what course it is his intention to take respecting the Local Assessments Exemption Abolition Bill?
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL :—As this rather irregular conversation has arisen, and I am the party principally concerned, I hope I may be permitted to make a brief statement to the House. I have asked for no explanation from the hon. and learned Gentleman of the words which he used. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Under Secretary of State for the Home Department (Mr. Hardy) said that the meaning of the words was, that I wished to replace myself at the head of the Liberal party; and my right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford said that the hon. and learned Gentleman had used the words in the difficulty which the most practised speaker may experience in concluding a sentence at the close of a long address. Now, I was willing to accept either of those explanations. In either of those two senses I could find nothing in the words to which I could take exception. But I felt likewise that the hon. and learned Gentleman, if he did use those words in the most offensive manner, was injuring himself rather than me; and, therefore, I thought that I had no occasion to ask for an explanation. But after what the hon. and learned Gentleman has now said, I must say that I am perfectly satisfied with the statement which he has made, and that I have always admired the abilities of
 1157
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  then addressed the House, but not one word could be distinguished.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER :—It will, perhaps, be convenient to the House to know that I shall propose that this House at its rising adjourn until Monday.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It is a great deal to have such an admission. When he tells us that there is "more" difficulty, it shows that he sees in its establishment a barrier and a bulwark to the promotion of his plans, and he of course would object to the establishment of a very large constituency, homogeneous, united, no longer with jealousy existing between its different classes, but at the same time a body so elastic and so expansive from the variety of its franchises, from the different kinds of property introduced, that it would be always increasing with the increasing prosperity of the country, and no man of common industry and intelligence would be shut out from the electoral privileges. 1248 1249 1250 1251 1252 1253 coups d'êtât, 1254 1255 1256 1257
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER :—Mr. Speaker, after seven nights' debate, conducted with a vigour and variety which have sustained the reputation of this House, it is now my duty to examine how far that measure which, rive weeks ago, I had the honour to introduce on the part of the Government, has been affected by this discussion, and to indicate the course which Her Majesty's Government think it their duty to recommend to the House this night to adopt with respect to it. Sir, it is some ten years since, or nearly so, that the Prime Minister of this country, then the leader of this House, occupying the very seat which I now fill, and being one of the principal promoters and projectors of the Reform Act of 1832, announced the deliberate opinion of himself and of his Cabinet to be that the famous settlement of 1832 was, in their judgment, no longer satisfactory and sufficient. And, Sir, from that period unto the present, with successive Ministries formed from different parties, the same opinion has been held, the same advice to Parliament has been given. The Crown has been pledged—the Parliament has been pledged—the Ministry has been pledged—to attempt to amend the representation of the people; but this is the first occasion on which a Bill with that object has been offered to this House for the second reading; and how am I met under these circumstances? 1231 1232 1233 1234 1235 1236 1237 1238 1239 1240 1241 1242 1243 1244 1245 1246 1247
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER :—Sir, I rise "to order," as I do not wish to prejudice my right to speak on the question before the House. I hoped, Sir, the suggestion which I made on Tuesday, that the debate should terminate tonight, met the general wish of the House, and I am perfectly ready, as far as I am concerned, to fulfil my part of the agreement; but this is a matter which must be left to the general wishes of the House. In an important debate like the present, which must lead to serious consequences, I do not desire to take upon myself the responsibility of bringing it to a close against the wishes of hon. Members who think they have not had a fair and adequate opportunity of taking part in the discussion. So far, however, as the Government are concerned, they are perfectly ready to come to a division to-night if that be the general wish of the House. [ Cries of Loud Cries of
 MR. E. C. EGERTON  wished to state in a few words the reasons which would induce him to vote against the Resolution of the noble Lord. He had had considerable difficulty in making up his mind; but his desire to see the question settled had outweighed his objection to the Bill, and he had decided to vote against the Amendment. The necessity for Reform had been admitted on all hands; and, from the moderation of the views expressed by the various speakers on both sides of the House, he inferred that if a measure had been proposed by the Government which did not contain any innovations, and which extended the franchise in the right direction, both in counties and in boroughs, it would have met with general support. As regarded the Bill before the House, he regretted to say that, although there was in his opinion much good in it, there were also many parts to which he could not give his adhesion. He regretted that it had been proposed to disfranchise a large number of freeholders. He believed that the class of persons affected by that proposal had as a body exercised the suffrage in an honest and independent manner, and there was something that looked like retaliation in the proposal of the Government to transfer their franchise from counties to boroughs. Another thing which he thought very objectionable was the proposal to give nonresident persons the right of voting. What had weighed most with him in considering how he should vote was the necessity of some speedy settlement of this great question. Parliamentary Reform had been alluded to in more than one Speech from the Throne; it had been dangled before the country for five or six years, and the hearts of the people were beginning to sink within them on account of its having been so long made a handle of for political parties. It was for these reasons that he should vote against the Resolution. He would have been glad to see the franchise extended with a more liberal hand to the inhabitants of boroughs, believing that the time had come when many of them who did not possess it ought to do. The spread of education and intelligence among the working classes since the Reform Bill of 1832, and the interest which numbers of them manifested in the cause of social improvement,
 1187
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he thought the matter was in the hands of the right hon. Gentleman himself, for if he would speak to-night the debate would be closed, as the House would not listen to other hon. Gentlemen.
 MR. HUDSON  thought that no sincere Reformer would pursue the course taken by the noble Lord, for the proposal of such a Resolution as he had submitted to the House was fraught with the greatest inconvenience, and placed hon. Members in a disagreeable and painful position. He (Mr. Hudson) had stated to his constituents, without giving any pledge on the subject, that he was quite ready to consider any measure of Reform that might be submitted to the House, and he would not fulfil that promise if he voted for the noble Lord's Resolution. If that Resolution were adopted the necessary consequence would be the withdrawal of the Bill, and he believed the feeling of the country would be that the
 1200 1201 1202
 MR. GREENALL  said, he could never give his consent to any Bill which would deprive the 40 s. 1209
 MR. CLAY  rose amid loud cries of "Divide!" All that could be made out was that the hon. Member moved the adjournment of the debate. [" Divide, divide."]
 MR. MILNES GASKELL  said, he did not rise to follow the hon. Baronet who had last spoken (Sir Robert Peel) through the discursive speech which he had just delivered, but to state as shortly and clearly as he could the grounds upon which his own vote would be given. If he had had the good fortune to concur in opinion either with Her Majesty's Government upon the one side, or with the noble Lord the Member for the City of London (Lord John Russell) upon the other, he should have been perfectly satisfied to give a silent vote, and to leave the discussion in the hands of those who were more accustomed than he was to take part in their debates. But there were occasions on which it was almost a duty upon the part of independent Members of Parliament, in justice to their constituents, and in justice to their own convictions, to come forward and avow the sentiments they entertained upon questions of great public interest. There were many provisions in this Bill to which he (Mr. Gaskell) was altogether unable to assent, while at the same time he could not vote for the Resolution which had been moved by the noble Lord. It appeared to him that a false issue was raised by that Resolution, and that this was not the time or the manner in which the propositions contained in it could be most advantageously discussed. He repeated, however, that there were many provisions in the Bill to which he was not able to assent. He could not bring himself to approve the uniformity of suffrage, of which they had heard so much; he had always been of opinion that that House should contain the representation of varied interests, and that they should find their way to it by a great
 1182 1183 1184 1185
 MR. WYLD :—Iwish to add an Amendment. ["Oh, oh!"] It is, "That at any election of a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, the votes shall be taken by ballot." I am sure, after the protracted debate which has just been brought to a termination, I shall best con-
 1262 and laughter. Cries of and
 MR. BRADY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether it is the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill for the better Regulation of the Corporation of the City of London; and if so, when it will be laid on the Table of the House.
 MR. BRIGHT : I said, "more difficult."
 MR. COBBETT  said, it was his intention to vote in favour of the second reading, mainly because by tailing that course the House would be enabled to get at that work on which they were all desirous of entering, and because the carrying the Amendment would lead to infinite delay. He did not approve of the Bill—the whole Bill. There were many of its details of which he disapproved; but he approved of one great feature in it, and that was that it opened the whole question of Reform in its full scope. It opened widely the question of a new Reform Bill, and it brought under the consideration of that House the regulations with regard to the manner of recording votes for Members of Parliament; it contained a variety of new franchises; and it opened many other points which had been discussed for some years by persons interested in Reform, but which had not found a place in any scheme of Reform which had been introduced since the Act of 1832. Why not, then, go into Committee on the Bill, where they would have the opinion of the House pronounced on all the details of the franchise after they should have been fully discussed? This course would end discussion on these points; and this appeared to him to be so great an advantage, after so many years' agitation of them, that of itself that would
 1188 s. Henry s. 1189 vice versa. 1190 "It was the original practice to have all the inhabitants included in the class called burgesses, and equally entitled to vote at the election of a Member of Parliament. There was an authority, which he would now quote from—an authority which hon. Members opposite would be little disposed to question, and which, in no quarter, would be disputed as to its legal value—ho meant that of the Lord Chancellor. That noble and learned Lord, at a hearing before the Privy Council, had stopped an advocate for the purpose of giving his opinion, which was to the effect that anciently all the inhabitants of boroughs, both in Scotland and in England, were entitled to vote. He would, therefore, take it for granted that, in point of law, this right was fully established, and that the original principle of our constitution was—first, that the knights of the shire were elected to serve in Parliament by all the freeholders of each county; secondly, that the citizens were sent from the cities by the inhabitants at large; and, thirdly, that the boroughs possessed the same privileges."—[2  Hansard, "And what had been the result of this species of Government, which had prevailed in the times of our ancestors? He felt no hesitation in saving that it was to this that we owed the establishment
 1191 Ibid.
 MR. COBBETT  said, he hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would refuse to pledge himself to close the debate tonight. The hon. Member for Swansea (Mr. Dillwyn) made a statement which, in his opinion, was not perfectly correct, when
 1158
 MR. SPEAKER :—That is beyond the point of a personal explanation of what fell from the noble Lord.
 MR. SPEAKER :—That is entirely beyound the limit to which the noble Lord's explanation can properly extend.
 MR. SPEAKER :—The noble Lord must confine himself to an explanation of what he himself may have said on any point on which he appears to have been misunderstood by the House.
 MR. ROEBUCK : Sir, no one estimates more highly than I do the importance of the subject we are now discussing. During the many years that I have been in Parliament no such great subject has ever occupied its attention. Other matters may have had a momentary importance, but they have been circumscribed in point of time and by the limited extent of their operation. The alteration which we are seeking to make is an alteration of the constitution of this country. The acts of this House influence the destinies of the whole world, and therefore the subject we are now considering is one which affects the happiness of mankind. I wish, if possible, not to put an end to this question, for an end to it we cannot put, but to go onward. My object is to obtain what reforms I can, and the question I have to ask myself is, in what wav can I best obtain these reforms? There is one matter before the House, and it involves a two-fold consideration. What is it we are about? To reform the Reform Act. Then we have two inquiries to make—what is it in that Act which requires reform, and in what way can we best attain the end we desire? I will confine myself to these two points. The House of Commons, from the very day of its establishment, has been in a state of constant fluctuation and change. Now, it has changed
 1224 1225 Ministerial cheers. minimum minimum quâ 1226 1227 1228 1229 1230
 MR. VANCE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce into the Superannuation Bill now before the House any provision for the Officers and Clerks of Her Majesty's Courts of Probate in England and Ireland; and, if not, whether it is their intention, during the present Session, to bring in a Bill for the purpose of giving Superannuation Allowances to the Officers and Clerks of the said Courts?
 MR. WALTER  said, that he was too well aware of the value of time at that period of the debate to trespass long on the attention of the House;but inasmuch as he entertained on this subject opinions somewhat different from those which had been expressed on his side of the House—or, at all events, as he had arrived at conclusions somewhat different from those arrived at by those who had spoken on that side, he trusted the House would allow him to state very briefly the reasons for the vote he intended to give. The House had been invited to choose between a Bill which was, he thought, well described by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Wilts (Mr. S. Herbert) as a Bill that required to be gutted in order to make it passable, and a Resolution which had, with equal justice, been described by the hon. and learned Solicitor General as one which committed nobody, and which meant nothing precise. A more disagreeable alternative he could hardly conceive; and, with the permission of the House, he would state very briefly the reasons which had induced him to determine both to vote against the second reading of the Bill, and also to abstain from voting in favour of the Resolution. It appeared to him that the discussion of this Bill might be somewhat illustrated by the position in which a gentleman found himself when he was in search of a house. He might be in very great want of such accommodation, and might see a house which at first sight presented a very picturesque appearance, but which, like the political edifice which Her Majesty's Government had raised, however picturesque it might look on the outside, he did not altogether approve, and which would hardly give satisfaction if he once entered into possession. The foundation of that political edifice was what was called identity of suffrage. Its timbers might be described as a £10 qualification, its buttresses and gables were fancy franchises, and its roof might be described as voting papers; but he was afraid, if he were to draw a conclusion from the opinions he had heard expressed in that House, if it were accepted it would soon be found that the roof let in water, that the timbers had the dry rot, and that the foun-
 1203 1204 ipso facto 1205 s. s. s., s.; 1206 C'est bien magnifique, mais ce n'est pas la guerre. 1207 1208 s. s. s.
 MR. HENLEY :—Sir, under ordinary circumstances, considering the long time the debate has lasted, I should not have thought it necessary to trouble the House with a single observation upon the question which we are now discussing. But circumstances have arisen in the progress of the debate which have brought it into so peculiar a state as to make it very difficult for any man who has taken a part in public affairs to abstain from entering into an explanation of the vote which he means to give. It is well known that I and my right hon. Friend near me (Mr. Walpole) were unable to give our assent to the leading provisions of this measure. I have listened with the greatest attention to the whole of this debate, and if I had heard anything that had in any degree shaken the opinion I had formed upon the subject, I should have felt no hesitation in acknowledging the fact. I think that this Bill has been somewhat underrated. In my opinion, it is a very large measure—large, not only in what it does, but still larger in the principles which it contains. What does it do? Upon the most moderate computation it increases the constituent body of the country by one-half. A measure that docs that cannot be called a small measure. But then the question arises—in what way does it do that, and does it do
 1212 1213 1214 1215 1216 s. s. s. 1217 s. s. d. 1218 1219 1220 1221 1222 1223
 MR. DILLWYN  desired to explain that he did not himself say hon. Members were speaking to their constituents; he had repeated what an hon. Member on the other side had said.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury under what Section of any Statute the Board of Inland Revenue has forbidden Mr. Routledge, of Eynsham Paper Mills, to send out without Excise Survey, half stuff made into slabs similar to those imported free from Russia.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he regretted to find that he was compelled to postpone the Motion for the second reading of this Bill. No other course, however, was open to him, in consequence of the length to which the debate on the Representation of the People Bill had extended—a length which was, he believed, in a great measure owing to the fact that hon. Members were, as had been stated by an hon. Gentleman opposite, addressing themselves not so much to the House as to their constituents.
 MR. WYVILL  said, he was anxious that the question of Parliamentary Reform should be settled, and believed that this Bill might be amended in Committee in such a manner as to render it a valuable measure. He also believed that if the Bill were rejected, it was impossible that any measure of Parliamentary Reform could be passed during the present Session. Was the House prepared, then, to allow this opportunity of progress and amendment to pass by, and did hon. Gentlemen deem it advisable to wait until agitation and excitement brought to bear upon the House a pressure, the weight of which it was impossible to foresee? Did the noble Member for the City, or the noble Viscount the Member for Tiverton, anticipate that if this Bill were rejected, and they introduced a prudent measure of Reform, there was any prospect that it could be carried this Session? Did they rely upon the support of Gentlemen opposite (the Ministerial side) or on that of the hon. Member for Birmingham, who had declared that the House was not prepared to pass any Reform Bill suited to the demands of the people? If, on the contrary, they proposed any large and comprehensive scheme, he was confident it would be rejected in that House by a large majority. he would therefore give his vote for the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. SLANEY  said, he would venture for a few moments to address himself to the Bill and to the Resolution. The Bill had been much condemned on his side of the House; but for himself, he must say in its favour, that it for the first time developed the principle of giving votes for personal property. He thought that was a most valuable principle, and one which should not be lost sight of in any Bill which might be passed by that House. Another valuable provision in the Bill was, that which would give a franchise to lodgers and to professional persons. They owed a debt of gratitude to the Government for having lowered the franchise in counties, but he regretted that they should have inserted the clause about the borough freeholders, and that they had not been persuaded by their right hon. Colleagues who had seceded from them, to make some diminution in the borough franchise. While the population of counties since the last Reform Bill had increased 10 per cent every ten years, the population of towns had increased 30 per cent every ten years, and it was admitted by every one that the franchise in boroughs ought to be lowered. On this ground he felt bound to vote for the Resolution; but he earnestly hoped that the Government would accede to the views of the majority on the two points to which that Resolution referred, and carry through a Bill which would meet with the concurrence of the great body of moderate men in the House. The improved conduct and increased education of the inhabitants of towns entitled them to some concession, and almost every speaker on the Ministerial side had expressed willingness to assent to it. He did not speak as a party man. He had always voted with the Opposition side of the House; but, having voted for enfranchising Manchester, Birmingham, and Leeds, and subsequently for every clause in the last Reform Bill, it was only consistent that he should vote for a fair and safe extension of the franchise to an intelligent portion of the community who did not now enjoy that privilege. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stroud (Mr. Horsman) had said, that the Liberal party was broken and disjointed; but the reason was, that every measure which for thirty years they had advocated, and the advocacy of which bound them together, had been gained. He rejoiced to find that liberality
 1186
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, that the claims put forward by Charitable, Scholastic, and Literary Institutions to exemption from local assessments had been very numerous. Many of those Institutions had represented that if they were obliged to pay any Rates at all their means of usefulness would be either totally put an end to, or very much circumscribed; and, after hearing several deputations which had waited upon him on the subject, he was persuaded that he should not be able to induce the House to pass the Bill in its present shape. There now lay before him two courses, either practically still to preserve as a principle of universal application the liability to rating, or to withdraw the Bill, and deal only with that part of the subject which related to Public Buildings, in which case he thought the proper course would be to proceed by means of a Royal Commission.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  was understood to say that it was his intention to bring up the Bill for the Regulation of the City Corporation, as recommended by the Select Committee of last Session. The Bill consisted of two parts—one relating to Municipal Reform, the other to matters of national interest; but it was proposed to confine it to the former. He hoped to be able to bring in the Bill before Easter.
 MR. COLLINS  said, that no one could doubt that whatever was the avowed object of the Resolution, its real intention was, not to amend the Bill, but to destroy the Ministry. He was not, however, of those
 1192 1193 "The Bill will enfranchise several thousand leaseholders who never could vote before in boroughs. At the lowest computation there are at least 2,500 such leaseholders in Manchester, and out of these there are only 317 on the register having county votes in respect of their property," 1194
 MR. MILNER GIBSON :—Sir, it appears to me that to commence the discussion of such an important question at such a moment as this would be perfectly unprecedented. ["Oh;"  and interruption. Interruption, 1263
 MR. SUTTON WESTERN  said, at the present stage of this lengthened debate it would ill-become me to occupy the time of the House, by entering into those wide constitutional principles which, though directly involved in the question before us, have already been so effectively discussed. But before recording my vote for the noble Lord's Resolution, I am anxious to justify the course I shall take, by a very few words, confined to a single point which is itself raised by a single portion of that Resolution. I allude to the transfer of the
 1195 s. 1196
 MR. W. N. HODGSON  said, he rarely occupied the time of the House, but this was a question in which every constituency of the empire was more or less interested: the House would, therefore, bear with him while he made one or two observations, and gave the reasons on which he should vote against the Resolution of the noble Lord. He had listened to the debate with considerable attention, and had heard some eloquent speeches delivered; but he could not but think that the House had not treated Her Majesty's Government with the candour and fairness it deserved at its hands. There had been several futile attempts to settle this question of Reform;
 1197 s. s., s. 1198 s. s. 1199
 MR. DU CANE  said, that in continuing a debate which would, he believed, be conspicuous in the annals of that House, not so much for the length to which it had extended as for the ability with which it had upon either side been conducted, it would indeed be an act of presumption on the part of himself, a young and inexperienced Member, if he were to say that he could hope, in the few observations he should make, to shed any new light or to throw the weight of any additional argument upon the subject which they had been so long discussing. But the position of embarrassment and difficulty in which the question was placed, and the natural wish which every Member of the House must feel to make known to his constituents not only the nature of the vote which he meant to give, but the reasons which induced him to give it, had induced him, somewhat reluctantly he should confess, to intrude himself upon the notice of the House, and to request their kind indulgence and forbearance, while he endeavoured, as briefly as he could, to state the reasons that had led him to the conclusion at which he had arrived upon that subject. He had never been one of those who thought that it was an error on the part of Her Majesty's Government to deal with that question of Parliamentary Reform. He never had thought that there was anything in Conservative principles which should prevent a Conservative Government from attempting such alterations and amendments in our representative system as the spirit of the age and the growing intelligence of the people seemed justly to demand. On the contrary, he believed that a debt of gratitude was due to her Majesty's Ministers for the manner in which, under circumstances to them of peculiar difficulty, they had endeavoured manfully to grapple with that question. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Marylebone (Mr. Edwin James) had remarked the other night that a measure of reform should be brought forward only by a strong Government. If the hon. and learned Gentleman meant by a "strong Government" a Government that sought to gain the confidence of that House, and to reflect the national opinion of the country by the wisdom, the justice, and the progress of its policy, then he for one most cordially subscribed to the hon. and learned Gentleman's definition. But if, on the other hand, the hon. and learned Gentleman meant by a "strong Government," a Government that sought
 1160 1161 1162 1163 1164 1165 1166 1167 status quo 1168 in toto Democracy in America, 1169 "Keep the word of promise to the ear, "But break it to the hope," 1170
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, or the Secretary of State for War, whether orders have been sent, or are in-
 1152
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he wished to know whether arrangements will be made in future to prevent Troops being sent to such unhealthy quarters?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  rose to order, and wished to remind the hon. and learned Gentleman that, as the Order had been read from the Chair, he might be throwing away his opportunity if he meant to speak upon it.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  here rose to order. He considered that the noble Lord was exceeding the limits of a personal explanation.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  next rose, but being received with cries of "Oh," and "Divide!" sat down.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Sir, I rise to offer a few observations on the most important subject we are now discussing; and, Sir, considering the number of Gentlemen who are still desirous of addressing the House, I think the time for lengthy speeches is wholly gone by; though I have no doubt that to any Gentleman who may desire to address the House, the House will afford their kind and courteous attention. But after this protracted discussion, after the very satisfactory manner in which I think the Bill of the Government has been debated and discussed—"dissected and disembowelled," to use the phrase of the right hon. Member for Ashton (Mr. Milner Gibson)—after the admirable and able speech of the right hon. Member for Carlisle (Sir James Graham), I do not propose now to enter into a lengthy discussion of the subject, or to philosophise with the Secretary for the Colonies (Sir Edward Bulwer Lytton) on the bearing of this "middle-class" Bill. We who rise at this late period of the discussion do so under very considerable embarrassment—almost everything that can be urged has been said—all the points have been alluded to, and it is difficult to engage the attention of the House. I am not going, therefore, to ask them to discuss the letter of Lord Grey, or to offer thanksgivings with the Member for Cambridge town (Mr. K. Macaulay)—I am not going to quote Clarendon, Mackintosh, or De Tocqueville, or to read extracts from the writings of the atheistical
 1171 1172 1173 Macbeth "To be or not to be—that is the question. Whether 'tis nobler for the mind to suffer The stings and arrows of outrageous fortune, Or to take arms against a sea of troubles; And by opposing, end them. To die"— 1174 1175 1176 Cries of 1177 "I grant the Bill is not one which Gentlemen below the gangway would give if it were their task to make one; but, so far as the Government is concerned, I ask those very Gentlemen, as men of honour, if Lord Derby's Government had passed a Bill according to your models, though you would have accepted the Bill, would you not have despised its authors? Should we not have been traitors to those we represent? We should have come into your camp, not as now, with a fair flag of truce and overtures of mutual compromise, but with standards trailed in the dust, and offering up the keys of every fortress which the loyalty of our partizans had confided to our charge. No! If a Reform Bill such as you desire must be carried, it is for you to propose it; it is not for us. But before you raise the scythe to mow us down, look again at the hour-glass! What is to be the next Government? Can it last if the Member for Birmingham and the noble Viscount, if the hon. Member for Sheffield and the Member for London, do not sit on the same Treasury bench?" 1178 "My belief is at this moment, that the Bill should take as the common point of its departure
 1179 1180 1181
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that the case of these Officers could not properly come within the operation of the Superannuation Bill, for they stood in the same position as other officers of the law courts. If any Bill should be brought in affecting the Probate Courts, a provision might be inserted in it with respect to those clerks and other officers; but at present it was not the intention of the Government to introduce any measure upon that subject.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that the provision under which this had been done was contained in the Section of the Paper Duty Act, which determined what was to be considered paper. What the hon. Gentleman called half stuff, similar to that imported free from Russia, was not precisely similar, because it might be used for some of the purposes for which paper was employed, which the half stuff imported from Russia, could not. An offer had been made to the manufacturers that they might send out this half stuff if it were cut into strips or other pieces; but they had declined to accept that proposal, and therefore the Board of Inland Revenue treated it as paper, and as such, subject to the provisions of the Paper Duty Act.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he thought it likely that the debate would close to-night or not? It would probably be a convenience to the House to know.
 MR. W.WILLIAMS  said, he rose to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether the statement is true which has been publicly made, that the Earl of Malmesbury has, up to the date of this Notice, refused to pay the £200 Stamp Duty required by the Act 55  Geo.
 SIR WALTER FARQUHAR  observed that he was glad to find that the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton took a very different course on this occasion to that which had actuated him on the occasion of the late debate. The noble Lord had then uttered a somewhat unconstitutional threat that he would not permit the Government to go to the country; now, however, he had intimated that he would throw no impediment in the way of that course. He ventured to think that the noble Lord, on second thoughts, had taken a much better view of things. He also would beg to congratulate the hon. Member for Birmingham upon the moderation of his tone, as compared with his violent language during the recess, and he trusted the improvement would continue during the forthcoming election. The noble Lord the Member for the City had stated that he thought the noble Earl now at the head of the Government ought not to have accepted office under the
 1332
 SIR FREDERICK SMITH  said, he would request the indulgence of the House for a few moments. He would not have occupied the time of the House but for an observation which fell from the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright), whom he understood to say that the Government were not disposed to lower the borough franchise, nor were the Gentlemen who supported them. He (Sir Frederick Smith) understood that the Government were willing, if good reason could be shown, to alter and amend any part of their Reform Bill, and certainly it was under that impression that he voted for the second reading. If the noble Lord the Member for London had been solicitous of carrying any Reform Bill this year he might have dropped his Resolution, seeing the willingness of the Ministry to act in a fair spirit, and in that case they would at that moment have been in Committee discussing the clauses of the Bill, which even that able and experienced statesman, the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, admitted had good points in it. However, he (Sir Frederick Smith) was anxious to call attention to that clause which ought to be expunged from any future Bill—namely, the 15th, which disfranchised the dockyard artisans. [ A laugh. 1334
 SIR FREDERICK SMITH  said, that the hon. Member for Dovor (Mr. Bornal Osborne) had made a personal attack upon him, and had imputed to him that he had promised his constituents at Chatham that he would vote against the second reading of the Government Reform Bill, and that he had not kept that promise, but had voted for the second reading. He begged to state for the information of the House and of the hon. Member for Dovor that he had never given such a pledge to his constituents, but that what he had told them was, that although he saw some defects in the Bill he should vote for the second reading.
 MR. WILSON  said, he did not rise to prolong the discussion, but he was anxious to ascertain from the right hon. Gentleman whether the Civil Service Superannuation Bill would be considered further before the dissolution. This was not a party measure; it was prepared in the main by the late Government, and brought in by the present one; the House had already spent a whole evening this Session in discussing the merits of the measure; it was one in which the public service took the greatest possible interest, and he trusted, therefore, the Chancellor of the Exchequer would see the advisability of its being further considered before Parliament was dissolved.
 MR. ESMONDE  said, he wished to know what course would be taken with regard to Irish business?
 LORD NAAS  replied, that he would state the intentions of the Government upon that point to-morrow.
 LORD STANLEY : I feel, Sir, that on any subject of less importance than this I should owe some apology to the House for attempting to invite their attention to a matter of this nature after those more immediately interesting and exciting discussions in which we have just been engaged; and I am bound, in the first instance, to admit that the brief explanation which it will now be my duty to offer to the House with regard to the present condition of Indian finance will be of a less satisfactory character than that which I submitted to their notice nearly two months ago; but of this I can assure the House, that as upon that occasion I did, so upon the present occasion I shall, keep back and conceal no fact or expression of opinion bearing upon the subject of which I have to treat which comes within my knowledge or belief. Indian questions will always be treated by this House on their own merits; and I feel that at all times; but more especially in times of some public difficulty and embarrassment, it is the duty of the servants of the State to communicate with this House in the frankest and most unreserved manner. I do hot intend to deny that it will be necessary for the Government, on behalf off the Ad ministration of India, to make a demand of this House for larger borrowing powers in the course of the present year than two months ago; it was considered would be necessary; and, of Course, I am prepared to meet that question Which will naturally be asked—How comes it that this difference has arisen; has it been an error, has it been Wing to miscalculation; is it due to an excess of expenditure over what was anticipated, or is it due to any
 1347 1348 1349 1350 1351 1352 1353
 MR. VERNON SMITH  remarked that he understood the noble Lord to state that it was not his intention to re-commit the Bill for the purpose of proposing an additional loan, nor to propose an additional loan in the present Parliament. (Lord Stanley assented.) The statement of the noble Lord differed greatly from the statement made in "another place" by the Prime Minister, and the latter statement might require consideration as well as the statement of the noble Lord. He would not enter into the causes which had led to a deficiency of subscriptions by the Natives, nor controvert the noble Lord's explanation that, seeing the difficulties we were in, the Natives were waiting to know if they could obtain better terms. But, at the same time, he thought that the revenue and accounts of India were in a most unsatisfactory state. He did not find fault with anything which had been done recently, but there appeared to him to be a want of financial counsel in the Council of India, such as might fairly he expected to set right this question. With regard to the deficiency of information, it was stated in the papers presented to the House of Lords, that accounts were sent home in January, and, if so, those accounts should have been presented to Parliament. He believed he was correct in saying that before the month of May the regular accounts ought to be laid on the table of the House. He understood the noble Lord to say that not only the sketch estimate, but the ordi-
 1354 1355
 MR. T. BARING  said, that such a discussion was calculated to make the House regret the exclusion of the members of the Council, who would have brought to boar upon it a practical knowledge and a local experience which might have corrected some of the statements which had been made, and would certainly have carried more weight than the speeches of mere amateurs in Indian finance. His right hon. Friend (Sir Charles Wood) had thought it necessary to defend his measure for the reduction of the interest, and had said that it was not only successful, but justifiable and expedient. Now, the measure might have been temporarily successful, but it was permanently unfortunate. It did not seem clear what permanent surplus of revenue there was in the treasury when his right hon. Friend attempted it; nor was he aware that there was such a diminution in the general rate of interest throughout India as would warrant such a reduction. His right hon. Friend only followed at that time the prevalent mania for the reduction of the rate of interest, and although his measure succeeded for a time it had had the effect of creating great distrust in reference to the management of the finances of India, and had thus exercised a prejudicial effect on the future conduct of those finances. To maintain confidence in matters of finance it was not only necessary that the Government should be able to meet all its engagements, but that its creditors should feel convinced that it would not avail itself of any temporary events to disturb existing settlements by forced operations, to their prejudice. Now that was what the reduction of the rate of interest did in India. The subsequent financial operations which his right hon. Friend criticised might or might not be judicious. At this distance it was rather unjust to criticise operations undertaken to meet a special exigency. As far as they could
 1371 1372 1373
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, and whose opinions on financial subjects were entitled to the utmost attention, had expressed it to be his belief that a portion of the existing financial embarrassments of India had been occasioned by the adoption of the course which had been recommended by Her Majesty's late Government with respect to the loan which had last year been contracted for the service of that country. Now, he (Sir George Lewis) was, he must confess, totally unable to understand the force of that argument. Anybody would suppose, from the reasoning of the hon. Gentleman, that Her Majesty's late Government had recommended some novel and unprecedented scheme for the adoption of Parliament. So far, however, from that being the case, they had simply pursued the invariable course of practice on such subjects. There never had been a time when the Exchequer of England had come to the assistance of the Exchequer of India. On the contrary, an attempt had at one time been made to exact from India a tribute to the English Exchequer. The expenses of Indian wars, moreover, had at all times been defrayed by the Indian Treasury from money raised in India, and whenever it had been found necessary to raise money for the service of
 1374 1375 1376
 LORD STANLEY  said, it could hardly be necessary for him to reply to the remarks which had been made, as most of the hon. Members who made them had left the House. The various questions of taxation had been, and were still being, carefully considered in Council here. No doubt their deliberations had been to some extent interrupted and superseded by the independent action taken in the exigency that had arisen by the Governor General in India; but the Government were far from wishing to throw the whole responsibility on the Indian Government. The suggested substitution of a financial for the legislative Members of Council would receive due consideration whenever a vacancy occurred.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he rose merely to put two questions to the noble Lord opposite (Lord John Russell). The House had had before it several Reform Bills. There was the last Bill of the noble Lord; the Government Reform Bill; and the Bill which had been shadowed out by the hon. Member for Birmingham. Now the noble Lord, when the Government Bill was before them a few nights ago, said that he was willing to enfranchise the great body of the working
 1336
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, one observation has fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer this evening which I cannot pass over without notice, and which I must be permitted to couple with another observation which fell from him on a former occasion. The right hon. Gentleman says, that he does not consider this question of Reform the appanage of any individual or the privilege
 1317 1318 per se 1319 1320 1321 Cries of 1322
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I alluded to those Members of the Government who spoke from the Treasury bench. I do not hold the same opinion in respect of those independent Members who supported the Government, for I understood them to differ with the Government on almost every point.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he rose to ask whether it was the intention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to move that the Orders of the Day should take precedence of Notices of Motion on Tuesdays and Thursdays during the remainder of the Session, so that public business might go on. He thought it would be very inconvenient for private Members to detain the House on the eve of a dissolution with discussions which could not be brought to any practical end.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, it now becomes my duty to reply to several inquiries that have been made, and to offer some comments upon some observations that have been addressed to the House. I think I ought first to reply to the queries of the noble Lord the Member for London and the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton as to the period at which we anticipate the new Parliament will assemble. I must say I was rather surprised at the inquiry. There was a pomp of patriotism about it, and the inquiry was pressed in such a manner as to convoy the idea that it was supposed the Government were going to prorogue this Parliament and to call a new Parliament together next February. But the noble Lords must have been aware that such a course was utterly impossible with the state of feeling existing in the House and the country upon all subjects in which the rights of the people and the responsibility of Ministers are concerned. We are now going to ask for some Votes in Supply, and that the House, should consent to some provisional arrangements, the influence of which can only extend over a limited period, and even the financial statement which it was my intention to have made next week, cannot in the present state of circumstances be laid before the House. I should have thought it unnecessary to assure the House, but I do to in order that there may be no misconception that the new Parliament will of course assemble at the earliest possible moment. I am asked when the dissolution is to take place. Of course I could not come down to the House to-day with that confidence upon the subject which Ministers in my position usually feel, because, after the
 1343 1344 1345
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I have before stated that it was our intention to proceed with the third reading of that Bill to-night. Do I understand the hon. Gentleman to object to that?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : My noble Friend the Secretary of State for India is quite prepared to make a statement now on the subject, and the whole evening is open for the purpose.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he believed there was a point of law involved in the question of the hon. Member. His noble Friend the Foreign Secretary had consented to pay the fees in question provided he could be satisfied that they had been paid by those who preceded him. The appointment did not depend upon the Patent, but upon receiving the Seals from Her Majesty, and therefore no question could arise upon the point mooted by the hon. Member. As it was his interest that as many payments should be made into the Exchequer as possible, he had submitted the question to his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General, and now awaited his report on the subject. If the opinion of the Attorney General was that these fees should be paid, he would certainly lose no time in claiming them, not merely from his noble Friend.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Mr. Speaker, I shall commence the few observations which I have to make by moving the adjournment of the House, in order that any hon. Gentleman who may wish to remark upon my statement may have an opportunity of doing so. I took the liberty on Thursday night, after the vote which the House had arrived at upon the Motion for the second reading of the Reform Bill, to move the adjournment of the House until this day, because I thought it but respectful to the House that in the course which the Government might think fit to adopt in consequence of that vote there should not appear to be even the semblance of precipitance. After that vote—after the observations made by myself towards the close of that debate—and after the declarations made by several Members of the Government, the House, I am sure, will not be surprised when I announce that it is not the intention of the Government to proceed with that Bill for amending the Representation of the People which I introduced exactly five weeks ago. It is also due to the House to state that it is not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to propose any other measure with the same object. On their part, however, I protest against the doctrine, which seems to be held by some, that the question of Parliamentary Reform is to be the appanage of any individual or the privilege of any particular party. I cannot hold that a body of public men professing the opinions which Her Majesty's Government do upon general politics—professing Conservative opinions—are not quite free to deal with the question of Parliamentary Reform, or indeed, with any other public question in that manner which they may deem most expedient for the public welfare and most conducive to the public interest. Indeed, I would say—not to provoke any controversy, which on this subject on the present occasion I studiously desire to avoid, but to prevent misconception—the question of
 1302 1303 Cries of 1304 1305 1306 1307
 MR. NEWDEGATE : Sir, having in the commencement of the debate on the Reform Bill, expressed in very strong terms my objections to what was then generally understood to be the principle of the Bill—namely, the uniformity of the franchise—I hope the House will allow me to state in a few words my reason for voting against the Resolution of the noble Lord. I agreed with the noble Lord in a great part of that Resolution. I objected to the change proposed in respect of the transference of the freeholders from the county to the borough constituencies, because I represent, perhaps, a larger body of freeholders, and freeholders in a town, than most county Members in the House: I should be ungrateful if I did not object to that proposition. But I wish to state the grounds on which I did so. Those freeholders were to be limited to their boroughs, but no additional representatives were to be given to those boroughs. The freeholders were to be transferred to a large body of voters, while neither to the counties from which they were to be removed notwithstanding the great reduction of the occupation franchise nor to the borough constituencies, to which they were to be added, were there to be any additional representatives given. Again, Sir, I thought it an unreasonable proposition that the county franchise should be reduced four-fifths, while no reduction was to be made in that of the boroughs. Though I might not go so far as the noble Lord in wishing to see the franchise for the boroughs reduced to £6, I thought some reduction ought to be made, and that if the occupation franchise in the counties was to be reduced by four-fifths that in the boroughs should descend proportionately. I have thought it right to make this statement, because, as a Conservative—a firm Conservative—and one who has ever upheld the bonds of party, I, for one, consider myself at liberty to object to any portion of a measure introduced by the Government of the day. In this case I, in the first instance, felt that so grave were the objections against the Bill, it would be my duty to vote against it. Why did I not do so? Because in the course of the discussions I heard Her Majesty's Government repeatedly say that that which I had been led to believe was a principle, was in reality only a detail. It was only after I understood that the Government
 1329 1330
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that thinking as he did that there was no more serious question for the consideration of the House and Government than the present state of Indian finance, he was glad to have the present opportunity of stating his views on the matter, because, in his opinion, no time should be lost in taking measures more efficient than had yet been adopted for equalizing the revenue and expenditure of that country. Before he went into that question, however, he must be permitted to refer to what fell from the hon. Member for London with respect to the measure for which he (Sir Charles Wood) was to a certain extent responsible—the reduction of the interest of the 5 per cent Indian loan to 4 per cent. He had not the least objection to take the whole of the responsibility which ought to be on his shoulders in that respect; but considerable difference would be made in the consideration of that question by a reference to the dates at which the orders in respect to the matter were given, and when the subsequent transaction occurred the hon. Member for London had omitted the dates. In looking through the Parliamentary paper, showing the variety of loans raised in India, it would be found that the processes were not quite so simultaneous as the hon. Member seemed to suppose, but that there was a considerable interval between the first and last transactions alluded to. He became President of the Board of Control about January, 1853, and it so happened that the Indian Government, seeing that
 1364 1365 data 1366 1367 s. 1368 1369 1370
 MR. BALL  said, he begged to state, in reply to the remarks of the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, that hon. Members on the Ministerial side of the House were not, as he seemed to imagine, indisposed to give a fair consideration to any Amendments which might be proposed in the Reform Bill introduced by the Government in Committee. Their intention, upon the contrary, was to go into Committee, and there so to modify the measure that it might prove conducive to the welfare of
 1340
 MR. HORSMAN : * 1324 1325 1326 "A vulgar party race, Struggling by dark intrigue for place." 1327
 COLONEL FRENCH  remarked that he did not think it was of very great interest to continue the present debate, but there was one point on which it was desirable that the House should be informed. A question had been pressed on the Government by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton which ought to receive an answer, namely—when the dissolution was to take place. He did not blame the Government for the course they had adopted in regard to their position in that House. Indeed he was glad that the Ministers for their own sakes had not adopted the advice of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, and consented to be dragged through the dirt. There were only two courses to pursue—either resignation or dissolution; and, if report spoke true, they had resolved at different times upon both those courses, and now adhered to the latter. He did not, however, concur in the reason given by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer for adopting this
 1333
 MR. BENTINCK  remarked that he was glad that no share of the responsibility of recommending a dissolution rested on his shoulders. He rose not to go into the question, but to advert to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright.) The speech which that hon. Member had made was more suited for the platform than for that House. He had threatened the Conservative party with the pressure—he would not say the violence—of numbers. He (Mr. Bentinck) did not think it was language becoming that House to
 1331
 MR. H. J. BAILLIE  said, he did not in the least complain of his right hon. Friend the Member for Halifax, (Sir C. Wood), for having drawn what he believed to be a faithful and what was, no doubt, a very good picture, of the present state of the finances of India. Nor did he complain of the exposition made by his right hon. Friend upon a former occasion. Unfavourable as were the remarks made by his right hon. Friend upon that former occasion, he (Mr. H. Baillie) very much agreed in them. But when his right hon. Friend stated that his noble Friend (Lord Stanley) ought, when he brought forward his Loan Bill, to have foreseen that the deficit in the Indian revenue would require a much larger loan than £7,000,000, he seemed to have forgotten that it was only from information recently received that the noble Lord had learnt that £7,000,000 would be inadequate. It must be perfectly obvious to every one that there was only one mode by
 1377
 MR. DRUMMOND  (who was at first heard with difficulty) said, he attributed the majority of Friday morning last to the combination of three factions, not only discordant with each other, but the Members of each of which were discordant among themselves, and not one of which had dared to produce to the House a Bill of its own. There were three heads to the Opposition. Nobody knew where the tail was, but wherever it was, it was always at variance with the heads. The hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) seemed very much alarmed at the possibility of his measure being characterized as a revolutionary measure. But if such were not the case, there was no meaning in the English language, for there was not an institution in the country—the Crown, the House of Lords, the whole structure of Parliament—which he would not do his best to destroy. Whenever that Bill was brought forward he (Mr. Drummond) for one should lose no opportunity of exposing its revolutionary character. It was worthy of remark how very different the language of the hon. Member was in that House, where he could be met, from what it was when he was addressing large masses in the country; but that wag not all. There was an association which hired people to go about the country preaching untruth, in common with those persons the hon. Member advocated the throw
 1323
 MR. BRIGHT : I feel, in common with a great many Members of the House, that the course taken by the Government is one which subjects us to a large amount of personal inconvenience. It is just possible that some of us who are now assembled
 1313 1314 1315 1316
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he thought that it was very desirable that the House should have some more accurate knowledge than it yet possessed as to what were the intentions of the Government. He understood that Ministers had advised Her Majesty to dissolve Parliament at some early period. It would be convenient to the House to know what they meant by "an early period." There was nothing on the Order book to prevent a dissolution taking place almost immediately, and after the speech of the noble Lord, the Member for Tiverton, he could not believe that any impediment would be thrown in the way of necessary business. When the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton recommended a dissolution, the votes that stood on the paper were passed as Votes on account, and he saw no reason why the same course should not be adopted now. Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would now state more definitely than he had yet done, at what period he thought it likely the dissolution would take place.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE :—Sir, the noble Lord (Lord Elcho) has put a question which his experience in Parliament ought to have taught him cannot ho, answered. But if he had studied the subject, I think he would have seen that by the calculations of Mr. New march the number of voters who would be added to the constituencies by a £6 franchise, and by the suffrage proposed by the noble Lord, would he very nearly a million. [Lord ELCHO: What proportion will there be of the working classes?] I shall not allow the noble Lord to drive me up in a corner by asking questions which it is impossible for anybody here to answer. We all know that the noble Lord is opposed to the admission of the working classes at all; but if he really wants information, I refer him to the paper published by Mr. Newmarch, which will save him from asking any such questions. With regard to the subject of discussion this evening, I agree with the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Horsman). I am not at all surprised at the decision of the Government. After the speeches made by the noble Lord the Secretary of State for India and by the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty, it was totally impossible for the Government, consistently with their honour, to remain in office without resorting to the constitutional process of dissolving. Directly I heard the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Colonial Secretary, in which he called upon the middle classes to resist any large measure of reform, I wrote to my friends at Dovor, saying, "You may depend upon it we shall have a dissolution soon after Easter, and the Government are getting up a cry to go
 1337 1338 cum grano salis, "Sir Frederick, longing to be at 'em, was speaking to the men of Chatham." 1339
 MR. SPOONER  said, he wished to state in answer to a question which had been put to him by an hon. Member (Mr. Cogan), that it was his intention to bring forward the subject of Maynooth to-morrow, and at the same time he would express a hope that his light hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not press his Motion for Orders of the day having precedence of Motions. He (Mr. Spooner) had already given way once to suit the convenience of the House, and if that Motion should be made he would oppose it, and would take a division upon it.
 MR. CRAWFORD : No. I only hope that sufficient time will be given for discussion before the Bill passes.
 MR. CRAWFORD : You have not mentioned the India Loan Bill.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, it had been his intention, on the Motion of which notice had been given by the hon. and learned Member for Devonport, to have offered some remarks on Indian finance, and he thought the present a legitimate opportunity of doing so. The noble Lord bad stated three grounds on which the supply of money on loan was withheld, and particularly that it was not a want of confidence in Indian finance that prevented the Natives from contributing to raise the loan now asked for, but an impression that the longer they kept off the better terms they would obtain. He (Mr. Crawford) did not think so, but he believed it proceeded from an entire mistrust in the financial policy of the Government originating in the measures taken by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Halifax, in 1853. He would remind the House of the peculiar nature of the Indian debt. The practice of the Indian Government had always been to maintain what was called an open loan—the officers in charge of the different treasuries receiving from the public such sums as were offered to the Government on loan, at rates of interest uniform at the time, but varying with the state of the market. When the revenue was in excess of expenditure, then money was received by the Government to pay off debt, at a high rate of interest; but when the revenue was deficient, it was necessary to make it up by loans, and the rate of interest was in accordance with the existing state of things. The result of this practice during the last few years had been this. When the new charter was conferred on the 1st
 1358 1359 1360 1361 1362 1363
 Mr. CRAWFORD  said, he wished to
 1342
 MR. GREER  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether the Lords Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury are disposed to permit the repayment of the sums due by certain Irish Counties for the improvement of the navigation of the Lower Bann to be spread over ten years, or some longer term than five years, the period now prescribed for that purpose?
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  stated, in reply, that no such order was in existence as that to which the hon. Member referred. Soon after the passing of the County Courts Act the Law Officers of the Crown, upon a question being submitted to them, gave it as their decided opinion that such persons as those to whom the hon. Member alluded should be treated as misdemeanants. They had accordingly been so treated, and, although he admitted that great hardship was suffered in many cases,
 1300
 MR. COGAN  said, he thought the Government had taken the most dignified course open to them in recommending Her Majesty to dissolve Parliament. At the same time he wished to express a hope that in dealing with the question of Reform it should be dealt with as an Imperial measure, and that a stop should be as much as possible put to the practice of exceptional legislation. Ireland and Scotland and this country now formed a United Kingdom, and he did not see why they should be treated in an exceptional and not an Imperial line of legislation. He should also be prepared to include in any Reform Bill which might be hereafter proposed the protection of vote by ballot. He should also be glad to learn from the hon. Member for North Warwickshire whether it was his intention to proceed with his Motion respecting Maynooth on the following evening?
 MR. DEEDES  said, he was glad to hear this explanation. He had long been prepared to lower the county franchise from £50 to £20, and that he thought the borough franchise might be reduced to a £6 rating, believing that the time was come when there were many men occupying £6 houses who were perfectly worthy to be entrusted with the right of voting. At the same time he was of opinion that it would be a very sound principle that under no circumstances, whether for property in a borough or a county, should a man have more than one vote. He thought that the Government was wrong in bringing in a Reform Bill at all; it was misplaced in their hands; but, having done so, and having found that their measure was one the principle of which was approved neither by their friends nor their opponents, they ought to have withdrawn and introduced another, which would have been consistent with what was expected of them. As to the course which they had now adopted, he could only say that if they felt it their duty not to resign, no other course was open to them. Entertaining as he did a strong feeling that, looking to the state of affairs on the Continent, a change of Government would at the present time be attended with great risk, he was perfectly ready to subscribe to the course which they had taken, and he should go to his constituents without the slightest fear of being obliged to
 1328
 MR. DEEDES  said, he understood the noble Lord the Member for London to say that the Government, in proposing the Bill, themselves put a bar to any possibility of their lowering the borough franchise, and that those hon. Members who had supported the second reading had pledged themselves against lowering that franchise, and were barred in the same manner as the Government. [Lord JOHN RUSSELL: No, no; I did not mean that.] He certainly understood that noble Lord to say that those hon. Members who had supported the Bill had precluded themselves from taking any share in lowering the borough franchise.
 MR. HUGHES  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether any steps have been taken to regulate the imprisonment of persons who are now subjected thereto by County Court Judges; and, if not, whether any inconvenience would arise from rescinding that portion of the order for prison discipline which subjects parties to imprisonment in a recusantward?
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he entertained a strong conviction that the proposed expenditure of £100,000 a year, contemplated by the first portion of the Report of the Committee upon manning the Navy, would be useless, and therefore he hoped that the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty would not give his sanction to that portion of the Report until the whole question had been brought under the consideration of the House.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, our prospects of Indian finance were, no doubt, at present exceedingly gloomy, and our prospect of improving the Indian revenue was not satisfactory. But to increase that revenue by increasing the land taxes would be to subvert the system we had pursued in India during the last thirty years, which was a system of constant reduction. That mode, therefore, of increasing the revenue was entirely out of the question. It had been said that there was a prospect of the Indian Government losing from £3,000,000 to £5,000,000 per annum of the opium tax in consequence of China cultivating opium for her own population; but inasmuch as about one-fourth of that population had to live upon the waters, as they had no land to cultivate, it was extremely improbable that any part of the soil of China would be devoted to the growth of a luxury. We were in much more danger of losing the opium revenue by the efforts of a body of most amiable philanthropists on this side of the water, He, however, did not think that the good sense of this country would permit those efforts, however well meant, to injure the interests of India. It had been said that
 1378 materiel "You will see that they have taken to issuing Treasury Bills, but it is doubtful whether that step will produce any great return. The Natives have got it into their heads that the Queen is not, bound to recognize the Government securities of the late Company, and unless a national loan for India is opened in England our Indian paper will be still further depreciated. That measure will disabuse them of the suspicion that the Indian and the home Governments are not identical, and would at once raise the value of our Indian 5 and 4 per cents." 1379
 MR. W. VANSITTART  said, that at the conclusion of the interesting discussion on the dissolution, not expecting the debate on the India Loan Bill to come on, he went away, and penned an address to his constituents, which would be found on the walls of Windsor the next morning. Having performed that duty he accidentally sauntered down St. James's Street, and on reaching his club found from the telegraphic messages that this Bill was under discussion, and therefore hastened down to take part in the proceedings. He found from letters and accounts that he had received from India that it would be necessary to raise £5,000,000 in addition to the £7,000,000 it was now proposed to raise. However, some Gentlemen might be opposed to the system of an Imperial guarantee that subject must come under consideration before long. From what he had heard from India it was at present impossible to borrow there even at 5½ per cent. A loan at 5½ per cent had been opened at Calcutta, but it had failed, and Viscount Canning could not get money on those terms. England, in conjunction with France, had not long since raised a loan of £5,000,000 for the Ottoman empire. Now, what was the Ottoman empire to England compared with India? He thought that India had a fair claim on England at a moment when she had just emerged from so foul a rebellion. He was satisfied that India wanted £12,000,000 at the present
 1356 1357
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, he wished to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty if it was intended to bring the Report of the Committee that had sat upon the above subject before the House before the dissolution. He thought it was most important that this should be done. Several frigates were then wanting to be manned. The House knew perfectly well that when two large armies were assembled, and a river only dividing them, that a single musket inopportunely fired might bring on a collision which would set Europe in a blaze; and in such a case, England would not know how soon she might require her fleet.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, that the noble Lord the Member for London had placed him in a very false position by the course which he had followed. He had been unsuccessful in the late debate in catching the eye of the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair, although he had risen no less than thirty times. Had he then been able to address the House he should have referred to the previous proposition of the noble Lord the Member for London in respect to small boroughs, many of which the noble Lord would have disfranchised. He should have stated that it was because he represented a small borough which the noble Lord would have disfranchised—that he preferred the plan of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to obtain population for the small boroughs by an extension of their boundaries; and on that account he gave the right hon. Gentleman his support, and felt it his duty to vote against the Resolu-
 1335
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  observed one thing was quite clear, that unless we could limit the military expenditure of India the insolvency of Indian finance was inevitable. At the present moment we had 93,000 British troops in India, the entire expense of which, as well as of their depots in this country, was placed upon the Indian revenue. He thought that having so large a force of British troops in that country, it was scarcely fair that the Indian finance should bear the entire cost of those depots. The military expenditure of India was not less than £20,000,000 sterling, an amount very nearly double the whole expenditure of the British army. How was it possible that such a state of things could last? The best course for this empire to pursue would be to take on itself a fair proportion of the military expenditure, so far as it-might be regarded as an expeditionary force sent out for a particular object. It was all very well to say that England was not bound to provide for the Indian debt, but its Government had authorized the loans, and the expenditure of the money, and, therefore, if Indian finance could not meet the liability, imperial finance should do so. He should be glad to hear from the noble Lord (Lord Stanley) that the idea of sending out twelve batteries of artillery had been given up. There were 7,000 British artillery troops in India already. In conclusion he could not but express his regret that the House had but very limited information upon this question of Indian finance. It was very much in the dark upon the subject; and most of
 1380
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  stated, that when a Privy Council was next held, an Order in Council would be issued, in accordance with which the greater part of the recommendations contained in the first part of the Report of the Manning Commission would be carried into effect. With respect to the second portion of the Report, it would, he thought, be hardly right to
 1341
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  replied, that memorials from the Grand Juries of some of the Counties referred to, pray-
 1301
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman, towards the conclusion of his address, tendered to the Members of this House his thanks, and the thanks of his colleagues, for the courtesy which they have received in the performance of their duties, and I am sure I am not doing otherwise than expressing the general feeling of the House when I say that they acknowledge in return the courtesy of bearing with which the right hon. Gentleman has upon all occasions conducted the affairs and performed the duties which belong to his position, and that whatever difference of political opinion may have arisen between any portion of this House and the right hon. Gentleman, as representing Her Majesty's Government, no personal feeling otherwise than can be agreeable to himself has been entertained. We have been informed, Sir, by the right hon. Gentleman that Her Majesty's Government, having understood the vote of last Thursday as a vote of censure, deliberated, in the first place, whether they should or should not retain the offices which they now hold, and that upon consideration they came to the conclusion that it was their duty still to retain them. The
 1308 1309 1310 1311 1312
 MR. FITZROY  replied that with reference to the first question he was prepared to submit to the House in the course of a day or two a Resolution similar to that which he moved prior to the Dissolution of 1857, with the exception of some slight alteration which had been made in the standing Orders having reference to the subscription contract. With reference to the second question whether he should be prepared to move that no further proceedings should take place respecting any Private Bill beyond those under discussion, he
 1384
 LORD NASS  stated in reply, that the only official report he had received upon the subject was that furnished by the Crown Solicitor, which was to the effect that they had called over 108 Jurors, several of whom had answered to their names; that the prisoner had challenged twenty of them and the Crown fifteen, whereupon the jury was sworn and the prisoner was put upon his trial. He did not know whether the report in the newspapers was correct or not, and therefore he was not in a position to answer that question.
 MR. BERKELEY  said, that hon. Gentlemen seemed to think that the Chancellor of the Exchequer was inclined to extend more favour to him than to any one else. All he could say with respect to the Motion of which he had given notice was, that he considered it so important that the question of the ballot should be discussed that if he could find no other opportunity he should bring it on, on the Motion for going into Committee of Supply.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that what he objected to was the retrospective operation of the clause. It probably would be beneficial if in future the age of sixty-five were fixed as the period for retirement; but with the qualification, that if men continued to perform their duties efficiently, they might be permitted to go on. The circumstances of each case should be inquired into, and decided upon accordingly. As to any officers now in the service, they ought not to be compelled to retire except on their full salaries.
 MR. WILSON  said, the House had already passed a measure which reduced the age at which public officers could voluntarily retire from the service from sixty-five to sixty, and having thus shortened the period of voluntary retirement by five years, it seemed but fair that they should fix a limit on what retirement should be for the compulsory clause. The effect would be to render the entire service younger and more efficient. In an old service all the clerks were at the maximum salaries of their respective classes, but in a younger service, although more efficient, the average of salaries would be lower. It was proposed, however, that heads of departments should have power to recommend particular persons for longer service, and it would be on their recommendation that the Treasury would act. The regulation had received considerable attention both from the present and the late Governments, and he should advise the House to accept it. It was erroneous to suppose that the expense to the public was to be calculated according to the amount of the pension.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he would than move that in Clause 13, line 27, the words from "receive" to the end of the clause be left out, with the view of adding the following words:—
 "The full superannuation allowance which could be granted by the Act under which he entered the service for the service which the shall then have completed, and in addition thereto the allowance under this Act for each year's service beyond the quinquennium."
 COLONEL NORTH  observed, that he was satisfied with the explanation of the hon. Baronet, and would beg to withdraw his Amendment.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he thought that the schedule should be carefully considered, so as to include all the parties it was really intended to reach. He mentioned, for example, the cases of Assistant
 1391
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he would suggest, as the hon. Gentleman proposed, to frame a new schedule, that the Treasury should have authority by warrant to add other offices to the schedule.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  suggested that they had better name the offices to which the principle of compulsory retirement should apply. If it was only to apply to the clerks in the establishments of the public departments, would it not he better to make the clauses specify so much, and thereby limit its operation to that class of officials.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to know whether the Bill was to apply to the clerks in the Emigration Office. They were anxious to obtain information on the subject. He had just received information to the effect that an officer who was in the receipt of a high salary and in the prime of life was about to retire to make way for a member of the Government.
 MR. WILSON  said, he thought the insinuation thrown out that the Government wanted to pass the Bill for the purpose of obtaining immediate patronage was disposed of by the simple fact that the Bill would not come into operation until the 1st of January next, It appeared to him that the better course to pursue was to pass the clause as it stood, and then make the schedule to be attached to the Bill as perfect as possible.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he had observed that he could not vouch for the story; he had only heard it; but he was sure that such cases would occur—he did not say under this or any other Government in particular—if a discretionary power was left with the Executive.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  suggested, that the clause should be withdrawn, as it seemed difficult to make an exhaustive enumeration of officers to whom compulsory retirement should not apply. Indeed the principle of compulsory retirement was unnecessary as the Act only applied to officers held during pleasure.
 MR. WILSON  said, that although he had supported the clause throughout, he now concurred in hoping the Government would withdraw it.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTECOTE  said, that in order to answer the question, "Who are to be deemed civil servants," he proposed to move the following clause:—
 "For the purposes of this Act, no person hereafter to be appointed shall he deemed to have served in the permanent Civil Service of the State unless such person holds his appointment directly from the Crown, or has been admitted into the Civil Service with a certificate from the Civil Service Commissioners; nor shall any person, already appointed to any office, be held to have served in the permanent Civil Service as aforesaid unless such person belong to a class which is already entitled to superannuation allowance, or to a class in which, if he had been appointed thereto subsequently to the passing of this Act, he would, by virtue of the provision lastly hereinbefore contained, have become entitled to such allowance; and no person shall be entitled to any superannuation allowance under this Act, unless his salary or remuneration has been provided out of the Consolidated Fund of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, or out of monies voted by Parliament."
 MR. WILSON  said, he was perfectly satisfied with the clause, as he understood from the Secretary of the Treasury that the Civil Service Commissioners would, as a matter of form, countersign the appointments in the War Office, Admiralty, and other departments, on the representation of those departments that the requirements
 1396
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  contended that such hospitals as these were mere private institutions, though they were partly supported by the Government.
 LORD NAAS  said, that in moving that the House should go into Committee on this Bill, he wished to express the hope that, as no notice had been given of any Amendment upon it, and no objection had been yet taken to its provisions, he should be able
 1399
 LORD NAAS  said, he would then consent that the Order should be discharged.
 MR. COWPER  said, that as an English Member he felt called upon to enter his protest against the most reprehensible and improper course taken by the Government in this matter. He understood the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Treasury to lay down the doctrine that the Government were quite right in making this large contract for £78,000 without public advertisement or competition among persons willing to tender, and without giving the House of Commons an opportunity of expressing an opinion with respect to it. If he recollected correctly the circumstances attending the establishment of the Cunard line of steamers, tenders were applied for in the first instance, and the offers were all considered to be too high. Subsequently Mr. Cunard made a lower offer, and it was not thought necessary to have another competition. The Peninsular and Oriental Company had obtained its contract by fair tender, and he thought that in this instance also an opportunity ought to have been allowed for all parties to tender for the service, and the public had a right to complain of the course taken by the Government, because there ought to have been some proper test of the value of the service to be performed, and such a test would have been best afforded by competition. He thought the Government were also reprehensible for persevering in their intention to sign the contract without giving the House of Commons an opportunity of ascertaining the facts of the case, and considering whether, on the whole, the arrangement proposed was the best that could be made, not only in the matter of economy, but with reference to the interests of Ireland. He thought the House ought to require some explanation why a
 1403 1404
 MR. F. W. RUSSELL  said, that while admitting the importance of a postal communication with America from one of the ports on the western coast of Ireland, which must ultimately tend to the conveyance of the American mails generally through Ireland, he must yet condemn the Government for the manner in which the arrangement with the Galway Company had been entered into. They ought to have, arranged their own plan, determined upon
 1409
 LORD NAAS  said, that previous to the order being made the hon. Member for Newry (Mr. Kirk) had shown him the return for which he wished to move, and he
 1413
 LORD NAAS  said, that some slight Amendments had been made in the Bill, and it was intended that it should become law this Session. Provision had been made in those cases where the seneschals had been returning officers, to transfer their duties to the sheriffs of the districts.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to call the attention of the hon. Baronet the Under Secretary of the Treasury to the fact that considerable dissatisfaction had been occa-
 1414
 MR. BLACK  said, he also must oppose the clause. The rule proposed of compulsory retirement at the age of sixty-five years would operate with great hardship in the case of those gentlemen who were already in the public service, particularly in the case of those who had entered the service at the age of about thirty. If they were able to perform their duties, and could produce a certificate to that effect, and if they attended at the office regularly, they ought not to be obliged to retire. It would be a most invidious task for the Treasury to perform to compel men to retire if they were able to go on with their duties.
 MR. STEUART  said, he would move the insertion in line 24, after the word "shall," "after the 1st day of January, 1860, be compelled to." He thought the clause in its original form might fall with great injustice upon many gentlemen in the public service, who would be taken by surprise, and therefore he proposed a medium course by postponing the operation of the clause for three years.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that with regard to the question whether the same rule was to be applied to the hon. Member for Bristol as had been brought to bear upon the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, he had to state that of course it was intended that a rule of that kind should be general and impartial.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he rose to move that on this and every succeeding day of the Session Government Orders of the day should have precedence of Motions.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that except for public purposes, the Government were quite indif-
 1394
 MR. COWAN  said, there was a class of civil servants who were paid not by salaries but for piece work. He alluded particularly to the clerks employed in the Registry Office in the city of Edinburgh. He wished to know if these persons were considered to have any claim under the provisions of this Bill to the benefit of superannuation?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he wished to ask what understanding had been come to with the hon. Member for Tavistock (Sir John Trelawny) with regard to the Church-rates Abolition Bill?
 CAPTAIN D. O'CONNELL  said, he would beg to inquire of the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland, in the absence of the Attorney General, if it be a fact, as stated by the Irish Papers, that at the late Trial at Tralee of Daniel Sullivan, accused of being a member of the Phoenix Society, the eleven Roman Catholic Jurors who were called and answered were directed to "stand by" by the Crown, and that one of the persons so excluded was a magistrate of the county Kerry, appointed by the present Lord Chancellor of Ireland?
 CAPTAIN D. O'CONNELL  said, the Bill was a very long one, and he thought it would be impossible to discuss it satisfactorily at this period of the Session.
 ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he should support the clause as it stood, as he considered the age of sixty-five a very fair limit. It would be a great advantage if a public department like the Treasury should be able to refer to a fixed period of age as that at which public servants should retire. The Treasury had the power to enable persons to remain in their offices if it should be for the public advantage; but
 1389
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he had heard no sufficient reason for proceeding with so important a Bill in the last hours of an expiring Parliament. The clause was so objectionable that he intended to move its rejection.
 MR. CRAUFURD  asked if the Bill would place the country letter-carriers on the same footing as the letter-carriers of the metropolis?
 MR. ELLICE  (Coventry)  said, he hoped the Bill would be passed. The postponement of the question would do great damage to the public service during the approaching elections.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he wished to observe that the office of Under-Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland was not a permanent one.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he wished to ask under what class the Barrack-Masters and their Assistants would be placed. They were to all intents civil officers.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, it appeared to him that this Motion was made in the old monopolizing spirit, to crush the rising interests of Ireland, as in former times Acts of Parliament were passed to prohibit the making of cloth and establishing other restrictions in respect to Ireland, though he admitted that of late years that system had been changed, This company was formed to establish a direct communication between Ireland and America, and made to the Government an offer which the hon. Secretary to the Treasury had shown to be of public advantage, and he knew not with what object the present Motion was made by the hon. Member, unless it was brought forward in obedience to the desires of his constituents.
 MR. BEAMISH  said, that although he had in the absence of the hon. Member for Newry moved for the papers, he knew nothing whatever of the circumstances of the case; but he would beg to suggest that instead of discharging the Order at once, the Motion of the hon. Member for Kilkenny (Mr. Sullivan) should be postponed for a week, in order to give the hon. Member for Newry an opportunity of explaining the object he had in asking for the papers.
 MR. BEAMISH  said, he did not blame the Galway Company for what they had done, but he thought it would have been the more regular course, where so large a sum of money was involved, if the contract had been opened to fair tenders for the best means of communication between Ireland and America. He might have his predilections for the port with which he was connected, and thought it was the best for the purpose; but he desired to look on this question not locally but Imperially, and he only wished the matter to be settled openly and fairly. The gentlemen connected with Galway had done much to secure a communication between Ireland
 1412
 MR. BEAMISH  said, he was of a similar opinion.
 MR. BENTINCK  remarked, that in his opinion the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) had certainly received very hard measure from the Go-
 1386
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he would suggest that the consideration of the clause he postponed for the present, and that in the interval the Secretary of the Treasury should consider and specify what offices should be included in the list of exceptions.
 MR. SPAIGHT  observed, that the Go-
 1405
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, the fact of certain officers being excluded from the operation of a provision of the Bill would furnish a sound reason in law for supposing that others who were not mentioned in the list were intended to be included. He would instance, as an example, the office of Under-Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant, and that of the Registrar and Assistant Registrar of Deeds. He knew one of those Gentlemen in Ireland to be over sixty-five years of age. He hoped, if the Bill passed through Committee that evening, that it would be reprinted, so that it might be in its amended form placed in the hands of hon. Members on Thursday.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, he believed that if this compulsory retirement clause were abandoned, the Bill might pass with general assent. His objections to the clause had by no means been removed by anything he had heard in the present discussion.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, he wished to announce that it was not his intention to proceed with the Roman Catholic Oath Bill, but that, if it should be his good fortune to be a Member of the next Parliament, he would take the earliest opportunity of re-submitting it to the House.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he hoped the House would excuse him if he addressed it for a few moments on this matter, in which he certainly had a personal interest. That interest had arisen in this way. Regarding Ireland as one limb of this great empire, he bad always desired to bring her, if possible, up to the standard of England. He saw an attempt made on the part of certain enterprising men in London to open a direct communication between Ireland and America, and by thus affording mercantile advantages to Ireland to benefit that country without doing injury to anybody; and though an Englishman, yet, wishing well to the sister Island, he had taken part in this adventure. Now, he was very much—he was about to say
 1407 viâ 1408
 MR. VANCE  observed, that the conduct of the Government in this matter was
 1402
 MR. VANCE  said, he thought that these were exceptional cases, and that it
 1397
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman who holds the position of Chairman of Committees with respect to the Private Business of the House. Many hon. Members now serving on Committees on Private Bills felt the necessity, under the present circumstances, of going into the country; and it would not be at all convenient to detain them longer than was necessary. The question therefore, he had to put was whether the right hon. Gentleman was prepared to move on the present occasion a Resolution of a similar character to that he moved previous to the late Dissolution of Parliament, to the effect that Private Bills might be taken up in a future Session of Parliament at the stage at which they were dropped in the present. He wished also to know whether there was any objection to permitting Committees on Private Bills to defer the consideration of any further Bills in the group except those actually under discussion.
 MR. RICHARDSON  said, it was natural that the hon. Member for Liverpool should dislike competition, but that Irish Members should do the same excited his astonishment and certainly was not very patriotic. For his own part he thought that Irish Members lay under a great debt of gratitude to the Government for the way in which they had treated Ireland, and he for one thanked them for what they had done in this instance. It was stated that Galway was a dangerous port to enter, but
 1406
 MR. DILLWYN  said, that his hon. Friend the Member for Tavistock had requested him to move, that the Order of the day in reference to the Church-rates Abolition Bill should be discharged; but the question would be renewed in the ensuing Parliament.
 MR. SULLIVAN  said, he regretted very much that the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) should have had a fling at the Irish Members; for had he taken the trouble to sift the chaff from the corn he would have found that out of the whole body of Irish Members five would perhaps support Limerick while the other 100 would vote to a man in favour of Galway. He (Mr. Sullivan) had the authority of an eminent Member of this House (Mr. Stephenson) for saying that, in that hon. Gentleman's opinion, there was no other port in Ireland which could at all equal in its capabilities for the Transatlantic service the port of Galway.
 MR. SULLIVAN  said, he rose to move that the Order of the 30th March for a return relative to National Education in Ireland be discharged. The reason for his Motion was, that the return reflected unfairly on the character of private individuals. It had been obtained in the following way. An action had been tried at the last Kilkenny assizes between a Mr. Kenealy and the editor of the  Belfast Mercury,
 MR. P. O'BRIEN  said, he was astonished to hear the hon. Member for Mallow (Sir Denham Norreys) protest against this grant, which was regarded in Ireland—except, perhaps, by persons who were interested in particular ports—as a great boon, very gracefully conceded by the Government. He believed Irish Members were almost unanimously of opinion that the establishment of the proposed communication would be attended with immense advantage to Ireland. The Secretary to the Treasury had, he thought, properly treated this as an exceptional case, similar to that of the Atlantic Telegraph. If Cork, or Limerick, or any other Irish port, had entered the field in competition with Galway, he could have understood the objections which were made to the course adopted by the Government, but no such movement had taken place. The sum required after all was inconsiderable, and with regard to postal requirements some four years back it was stated by the hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. W. Brown), one of the leading merchants engaged in the American trade, that two-thirds of the letters which were received by his house in Liverpool from America were from emigrants who had gone out from Ireland, and who sent remittances to their friends in that country. He thought, therefore, it was fair to infer that increased facilities for postal communication between North America and Ireland were required.
 MR. SPOONER , (who had given notice
 1385
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, it was not unusual to discharge such Orders. The Return had been moved for in the ordinary way, after it had been ascertained that there was no objection to it; but as the hon. Member for Kilkenny (Mr. Sullivan) had stated, that it affected the character of a gentleman from whom he had received the information, in the absence of the hon. Member who moved for the Return, the fairest way was to discharge the Order, and leave it to the hon. Member for Newry, if he thought proper to renew his Motion.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he rose to call attention to the subject of the intended mail service between Galway and America, and to move for a copy of all correspondence connected therewith. He had no hostility to the proposed communication between Galway and America, nor was he influenced by any Liverpool feeling, because he knew that influential memorials in favour of the Galway line had been forwarded from the town which he had the honour to represent, and also from Manchester. But, as a general rule, he objected to all subsidies, and thought the postal service of the country might be efficiently performed without them. The fact that the contract with the Galway line had been entered into privately had given great umbrage to many persons, and, for his own part, he believed that the country would have gained by an open competition. So far back as October last, a rumour prevailed that it was the intention of the Government to grant a subsidy to the Galway line of steamers for carrying the mail between Galway and America. A company in Liverpool immediately wrote to the Treasury to inquire whether such was the case, and he rested the whole of his complaint upon the answer which they received. They were informed, in reply to their communication, that when a new postal service was about to be established by the Government it was the practice of the Treasury to invite tenders by public advertisement, thereby affording to all parties an opportunity of competing. Now, he thought that the Liverpool, Philadelphia, and New York Company to whom this answer was addressed, had some reason to complain that after such an assu-
 1400
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he must join in the suggestion. The clause before the Committee was connected with another, and he was afraid that, do as they would, they would not be able to get over the giving a discretionary power to the Treasury; but he could see no reason, and he had heard none, why the Committee in legislating on a matter so delicate should not insist on carrying specification to the utmost point. Unfortunately, the clause had been drawn on the opposite principle. The exemptions from the operation of the Bill ought also to be as explicit as possible. He agreed with the hon. Member (Mr. Craufurd), that at this moment this was the last Bill of all with which they ought to proceed in a hurry, seeing that it connected itself more or less with the electioneering interests of almost every hon. Gentleman on both sides of the House. He also hoped before the Bill passed that the Secretary of the Treasury would be prepared to give the House an estimate of the probable addition which it would cause to the public expenditure.
 MR. COGAN  said, that after the feeling which had been exhibited by the Committee he must again press the Government to withdraw the Bill. There was no exigency in the case, and, considering the vast expense it would impose on the taxpayers of the country, it was only fair that the fullest opportunity should be afforded for discussing its provisions. If, however, it were proceeded with he would vote for the rejection of the clause as he had a strong feeling against compulsory retirement.
 MR. COGAN  said, that it was of the utmost importance that he should bring before the House a Motion which stood in his name with respect to the conduct pursued by the Admiralty towards the Royal Yacht Club. The Admiralty had withdrawn its flags from this club, which contained 150 yachts and 400 members, and the result would be that a dissolution of the club must take place if the matter were not shortly taken into consideration. He must, therefore, appeal to the courtesy of the Government to grant him an opportunity of bringing it before the House.
 MR. COGAN  said, he would move to substitute the word "seventy" for the words "sixty-five." He observed that it was not found that persons in other classes of life were unable to perform their duties, and he could not see why the civil servants should be compelled to retire from their situations at a time when they might be well fitted to perform their duties. Moreover, the compulsory retirements of these gentlemen would place a great burden on the country.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he must beg leave to question the statement just made as to the comparative unanimity of Irish Members on this question. On the other hand he thought that if the Irish Members were polled it would be found that a considerable number, who were interested in neither of the two ports mentioned, thought that the subject should be fairly and impartially sifted before any selection was made. He (Mr. Monsell) desired that the House of Commons should have this question fairly brought before it, and that a Committee should be appointed to take evidence, and then that a decision should be come to
 1411
 MR. W. VANSITTART  said, a petition had been sent by the Masters of Workhouses, praying that provision should be made out of the rates for superannuation allowances to them. He mentioned the matter that his hon. Friend might consider whether be could do anything.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, he objected to making Motions one day and discharging them the next. He thought the matter should be postponed for a month, which would get rid of it for the present Session.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, he conceived that the arrangement made by the Government was a hasty one, and he believed that it would be found a most improvident one; but he trusted that the company had been bound to provide such vessels as would insure the greatest celerity and public convenience in the transit. If the Government had simply announced that it was desired to establish a communication between some portion of Ireland and America, the self-interest of the mercantile community would have led them to make an arrangement infinitely cheaper and more beneficial to the country than that adopted by the Government.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, that he looked upon the Bill as one of the most unfortunate measures that had passed the House for a long time. He believed that, but for the private influence which had been brought to bear upon hon. Members, such a Bill as this, unconnected as it was with any revision of salaries, would never have received their assent. If he thought for a moment that he could get any support he would oppose it on the third reading.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, he would beg to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland what was to be done with the Manor Courts, Ireland Bill, which was coming back to that House from the Lords with Amendments. He also wished to know whether provision had been made for appointing returning officers in those places where the officers of those courts which had been abolished, had acted as returning officers.
 MR. GROGAN  said, that the hon. Gentleman was quite mistaken in this respect, for these hospitals had been supported from their first institution by the Government, and never had any other support except about £130, which they derived from private endowment.
 MR. GROGAN  then moved the following clause:—
 "Whereas, by the Act passed in the 19t!i and 20th years of Her Majesty, chap. 110, intituled 'An Act for the better regulation of the House of Industry Hospitals and other Hospitals in Dublin, supported wholly or in part by Parliamentary Grants,' provision is made for the grant of Superannuation allowances to the officers or servants of such House of Industry Hospitals or of the Lock Hospital in Dublin, who from confirmed sickness, age, or infirmity, shall become incapable of executing their offices in person; and whereas the funds annually voted by Parliament for the maintenance of the said Hospitals are inadequate to maintain the said Hospitals, and to pay such Superannuation allowances, and it is expedient that provision for the payment of such Superannuation allowances be made under this Act. Be it enacted, 'That it shall be lawful for the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury to grant such Superannuation or compensation allowances to the several officers or servants of the said Hospitals mentioned in the Schedule hereto annexed, according to their respective periods of service, previously to 1st April, 1857, in the Civil Service of the State, and subject to the like rules and provisions as they are hereby empowered to grant to persons who shall have served in the Civil Service of the State.' "
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he thought the House had better suspend its judgment until the papers were before them, and then, if they were not found satisfactory, it would be a question for reference to a Select Committee. He was surprised at the imputation cast by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) against the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper), who, he thought, had laid down a good and constitutional doctrine, and as a general principle he thought it was preferable to put up all these lines to competition and tender. The hon. and learned Member told the House that he was influenced by motives of the purest patriotism in entering into this company. He did not dispute the hon. and learned Gentleman's assertion, at the same time he must say that that was the last consideration he should have thought would have induced any person to enter into such a speculation. It might have been all very well when lines of very small importance and expense were involved to leave the Government to deal with them as they thought fit, but looking at the magnitude of these postal contracts in the present day, it behoved the House to con-
 1410
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said he wished to ask whether it was intended to exclude from the provision respecting compulsory retirement all heads of boards?
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he had considerable doubts as to the propriety of the clause. Under the present law persons in the public service could not be superannuated, except on medical certificate, under the age of sixty-five; but after the age of sixty-five no certificate was necessary, and persons might then retire voluntarily or might be required by the Treasury to retire. He thought there should be a power on the part of the Treasury to enforce the retirement of persons who were beyond a certain age, and who were unfit to discharge their duties efficiently, but he did not see the advantage of making retirement at a particular age compulsory. Under such a system, officers who were immediately under the eye of the Treasury, and who were efficient servants, would be asked to retain their positions; but woe betide the unfortunate men at a distance with whose merits the Treasury were unacquainted. He doubted whether it was advisable to place in the hands of the Treasury a power which he feared even the most impartial Government would he unable to exercise without causing dissatisfaction.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he hoped that the Committee would proceed with this Bill and finish it. A feeling of great anxiety prevailed among public servants with regard to the Bill; and nothing would be more inconvenient to the public service than that this class of persons should be looking to Members of Parliament, and not to the Government.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, the Government had not the slightest feeling with regard to the clause, except to make an arrangement which, upon high authority, they believed would be to the advantage of the Civil Service. The clause had been a good deal misunderstood, and therefore, under the circumstances, he would withdraw it.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that this clause was framed upon one drawn by the late Government. Such a provision was recommended by the Royal Commission, but he could assure the House that Her Majesty's Government had not introduced it for the purpose of obtaining patronage for themselves, They did not wish
 1393 versus
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that some of the officers in the Emigration Office were paid by salaries guaranteed by the Imperial Treasury, while others were paid by salaries guaranteed by the Colonial Treasury only. He apprehended that the former class would be included in this clause.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : Yes. They were scheduled.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he then moved the addition of the following proviso:—
 "Provided that this enactment shall not apply to persons holding any of the offices mentioned in the schedule to this Act, it shall be lawful for the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury, by order or warrant, under the hands of any two or more of them, to add to the said schedule any other office or offices which now exist, or may be hereafter created or established, the nature and functions of which shall render its or their exclusion from the operation of the said enactment desirable; in every which order or warrant the reasons for adding such office shall be stated; and a copy of every such order or warrant shall be laid before Parliament within one month after the making thereof, if Parliament be then sitting, and if not then within one month after the next sitting of Parliament."
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that with respect to the quinquennium the hon. and gallant Gentleman must bear in mind that if a person served between twenty-five and thirty years be was entitled to a certain rate of remuneration.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, it was not intended that the provision respecting compulsory retirements should affect officers of the classes alluded to. He admitted that the schedule was not sufficiently defined. He therefore proposed to reprint the Bill, with a more complete schedule. The measure did not profess to deal with the officers referred to by the hon. Member for Windsor (Mr. W. Vansittart.)
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  observed that with that view he would propose to insert the words "from time to time."
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he was sorry to be obliged to oppose the Amendment of his hon. Friend; but he did not think that the institutions mentioned in the clause came within the scope of the Bill. If it was thought desirable that a scheme of superannuation should be applied to them, it ought to be done either by a separate vote, or by a Bill introduced for the purpose. He would rather not go into the circumstances of the particular cases, but would simply say, that it was impossible to introduce them into the Bill.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, the Board of Audit would not grant superannuation unless the certificate of the Civil Service Commissioners was produced. The clause was for the purpose of introducing regularity into the service.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that hon. Gentlemen would remember that he had stated on a former occasion that he would endeavour, as far as possible, to make some kind of estimate of the expense the measure was likely to entail upon the public, but it would be found excessively difficult to form an accurate estimate upon the subject. As he had stated previous to going into Committee, no reliance could be placed on any calculation, because it could only be based upon the average age and period of service at which persons were now in the habit of retiring. At present they were retiring from the civil service under a scale of allowance which was much more favourable than the scale to be put in operation hereafter. He had endeavoured, however, to make an estimate, supposing that the rate of retirement would continue to be the same as now, and he calculated that, under the operation of this Bill, it might possibly cause an addition not exceeding, at the very outside, the sum of £70,000 a year. That was the result of bringing the Post Office within the operation of the measure, by which a very large number of persons would be added to those who were already entitled to superannuations. In fact, the great mass of addition to the expense would be occasioned by in-cluding the Post Office servants within the provisions of the Bill. There would be 6,000 or 7,000 persons thus brought under the operation of the Act, whose superannuations would cost about £40,000. The charge for officers in the dockyards and Customs could hardly reach £10,000, and it was just possible that under the operation of the modified scale some £20,000 might be added. Of course, when he put the total amount at £70,000; he put it at an outside figure; but he did
 1398
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he had considered the case of persons of this description, but he feared it was impossible to include any others than those who were paid by salary within the provisions of the Bill.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that all persons who either gave up or were required to give up their whole time to the service of the public were included; but there were persons employed under the Post Office who did not give up their whole time, but were engaged in other pursuits during a considerable portion of the day, and these would not be included. The country postmasters and letter-carriers who were wholly employed in the service of the Post Office would of course be included in the Bill.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, there could not, of course, be the slightest objection to produce the correspondence for which the hon. Member had moved. A great deal of it had already been published, and the Government were ready to lay upon the table the further correspondence which had taken place on the subject. The usual practice when any new line of postal communication was intended to be established was to advertise for tenders and an answer to that effect had been sent to the company to which the hon. Member had alluded; but the Government thought they were justified in treating the Galway line between Galway and America as an exceptional case, inasmuch as it was proposed not purely for postal purposes, but as a measure specially important to the interests of Ireland. It should be remembered that the circumstances which connected Ireland with America were peculiar. A large amount of emigration took place between the two countries, and it was most desirable that every facility should be given to it, especially in the way of affording direct means of communication. The class who emigrated from Ireland to America consisted principally of persons in humble circumstances, and if they were obliged to travel from the south or west of Ireland to England, and then to take their chance of finding a passage to America from an English port, they would obviously be exposed to considerable hardship, and he believed that in many cases intended Irish emigrants had become chargeable upon the Liverpool poor rates from their inability to proceed further. In addition to this, it was found that a large proportion of the postal communication between Great Britain and America—he believed about a third—belonged to Ireland. Under these circumstances a company was formed to establish a line of steamers between Galway and America. It entered into an arrangement with the Government of Newfoundland for the performance of a postal service, and it then asked for a subsidy from the Imperial Government, with the view of making that service more complete—converting it, in
 1401
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that according to the present state of the law, the contemplated age of retirement was sixty-five, as no person could retire without a medical certificate until he reached that age. Of course there were cases in which persons were efficient beyond that age, and it was desirable that such persons should continue in the service of the country; but there were a great many other cases in which the employed became less efficient after a long period of service. It was always in the power of the Government to tell those individuals to go, but that was a painful step for any department to take, and it was, therefore, now proposed that at sixty-five years of age retirement should be the rule, and staying the exception. The effect of this would be, that efficient persons would be asked to stay. The number of persons in the public service to whom this clause would apply was not more than 300, and he thought it was very desirable for the interests of those gentlemen, and of the service generally, that the age of retirement specified in the clause—namely, sixty-five—should be adopted. The current of promotion was stopped when old officers retained their positions, and it was natural that such persons should desire to remain in office, in order to obtain the higher salaries to which they were entitled, rather than submit to a reduction of one-third of their incomes
 1388
 Sin STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he must oppose the Amendment.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that the hon. Gentleman had called attention to a subject which had caused some interest in the City, and which related to some damaged tea which had been imported in a vessel called the  Jubilee,
 MR. JACKSON  said, he was of opinion that no subsidies at all were requisite, either for the postal or commercial service between England and America. If the communication between the two countries were left to private enterprise, ample accommodation would be afforded without the necessity for resorting to Imperial taxation. The Great Eastern, with which he was connected, would, when ready for sea, be prepared to carry on the postal communication across the Atlantic swifter than any other ship without asking the Government for a shilling. With regard to Galway, he did not ask himself whether that was the best or worst port for the purposes required; but he contended that if it were really the best it would soon have been selected as the point of intercommunication, and he thought the Government ought to have paused before supporting any individual enterprise.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  could not see the use of the appointments in the Admiralty being countersigned by the Civil Service Commissioners, as they could not examine the candidates. What was the use of giving the Civil Service Commissioners a veto upon appointments the fitness of the person appointed to which they had no means of determining?
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Sir, there has been throughout our recent debates a constant, an unfair, and, I trust, a wholly unsuccessful attempt to fix upon this side of the House the responsibility of the present state of affairs. The remarks which have just been made by the hon. and learned Member for Wallingford would almost lead the House to suppose that it is my noble Friend the Member for Tiverton and the hon. Gentlemen sitting on this side who have advised the dissolution of Parliament and who are responsible for that important step. But observe what has been the course of the Government upon this subject. On acceding to power last year they took the Government, according to the expression of my noble Friend, with its engagements. I must be permitted to remark, however, that it is a perfectly new and not generally accepted doctrine that an Opposition, when it comes into office, abandons its own engagements and adopts those of its antagonists. However, without dwelling upon that part of the subject, I shall only say that Ministers voluntarily undertook the engagement of bringing in a Reform Bill. They renewed that engagement on various occasions by declarations of individual Members of the Government during the recess, and they announced in the Speech from the Throne their intention of introducing a measure of Reform. After mature deliberation that Bill was brought forward. It was made the subject of a long and able debate, and by the solemn judgment of this House it was condemned as unsatisfactory. In consequence of the adverse decision of this House they abandoned their Bill; but they do not announce that they will bring in any other measure, on the contrary, they state that in the present year it is not their intention to propose any other measure of Reform, and they appeal to the country against the decision of this House. Now, is that not a distinct appeal upon the measure of the Government? Upon what possible question can it be an appeal if not upon their Reform policy, upon their recent Bill, and against the adverse decision of the House in connection therewith? They do not substitute any other measure, and still less do they state what that measure is to be; they simply appeal against the decision of the House, and that decision was pronounced upon their existing Reform Bill. [Sir JOHN PAKINGTON: It was a refusal to entertain the question.] The decision of the House was pronounced upon
 1425 1426
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : I did not refer
 1427
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he must repeat what had been stated on a former occasion, that the order issued by Lord Hill had not been altered.
 LORD NAAS  said, he wished to correct a statement which had been made in his absence by the hon. Member for Dovor (Mr. Bernal Osborne) as to an appointment in Ireland. He thought it would have been more courteous if the hon. Member had given notice of his intention before putting the question. He had stated, however, that an appointment had been made to the Incumbered Estates Court in direct opposition to the report of the Commission, and in the face of a decreasing business in the Court. Now, it was not made in direct opposition to, but in conformity with, the law and the provisions of an Act passed last year. The question was then fully discussed as to whether there should be two or three Judges of the Court. The Government thought there should be two only, but the House was of a different opinion, and after considerable discussion, and in deference to that opinion, it was determined that the Court should consist of three Judges. With regard to the business of the Court decreasing, a more unfair statement than that of the hon. Gentleman he had never heard in that House. The Court, as newly constituted, had not been long in existence, so that no fair criterion could be formed as to what its future business would be likely to be. Sufficient time had not been afforded those who wished to avail themselves of the Court to bring their cases into it, and time had been required to revise the rules. But as soon as the Court could get into fair working there was good reason to believe that its business would be increased, and that there would be ample employment for three Judges. There was also every reason to believe that the Court would be self-supporting. At
 1432
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he was glad
 1434
 MR. WILSON  said, the hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Treasury made an observation which he believed was not intended by him to go to the extent its literal meaning implied. He understood the hon. Gentleman to say, although the Post Office, after the contract, might pay the subsidy, yet it would be necessary afterwards for the Government to come to Parliament for a vote on the subject. It was true that an Act was passed requiring the gross revenue to be paid into the Exchequer; yet, in point of fact, the practice was not so, for it was considered more convenient to pay the expenses of the particular department than to draw them from the Exchequer. Although monies were paid by public departments, and although the subsidy referred to might be paid by the Post Office, yet no such money could be paid until after it had been voted. The great distinction between the two cases was this. Although the particular department might pay the money that money could not be paid until after the vote was taken in the House. If this were not the case, it was quite clear, that the whole control of the House would he gone in respect to those matters.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  remarked, that the point was this—there bad been £2,000,000 of Exchequer bonds issued instead of paying off £2,000,000 according to a solemn engagement entered into by the Government.
 MR. WILSON  observed that this was too important a step to be taken as a mere matter of form. They ought not to be called upon to discuss it in so small a House. The Committee were asked to repudiate a distinct engagement entered into with the public for the repayment of £2,000,000 of the public debt. He contended that there was a specific agreement entered into that those Exchequer bonds should be paid off in a specific time. The Government paid higher for the money in consequence, for it could have been borrowed upon more favourable terms. Last year it was one of the most difficult points with the Chancellor of the Exchequer to obtain the assent of the House to the renewal of the £2,000,000 Exchequer bonds, instead of paying them out of the ways and means of the year; but the obligation once disregarded it seems easier to disregard it on a second occasion. The obligation entered into by the Government was broken last year, and that too, without the Chancellor of the Exchequer thinking it necessary to come down to the House to offer any explanation on the matters. There was a large increase of the receipts in the present year from one source in particular, namely, from the sale of old stores, the most expensive mode by which the Exchequer could be replenished. Notwithstanding the receipts had increased about £1,500,000 since the last financial statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer,
 1436
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he wished to impress upon the Committee that when the Government asked for votes on account with regard to the public service, they only asked for what was merely necessary to continue the current services of the year. They did not ask the House to assent to any new principle. When this debt was contracted on Exchequer bonds there was a kind of obligation entered into that when they fell due means would be found to discharge them without borrowing money or permanently creating £2,000,000 additional to the national debt. He did not, however, think that the Government could adopt any other course than the one proposed, without previously making the financial statement for the year. It might be difficult, under existing circumstances, to expect even the financial statement. When, however, the dissolution took place two years ago he filled the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he thought it his duty to give a statement before that dissolution. He then proposed to Parliament and obtained its assent to the most material measures for the arrangement of the finances of the year. On the present occasion they were going to a dissolution without any such arrangement, and the House was called upon to authorize Government to pay off £2,000,000 of Exchequer bonds, without knowing on what terms the debt was to be renewed. [Sir STAFFORD NORTHCOTE: It is not to be renewed at all.] Then he presumed that there would be sufficient income from present taxation, or by additional taxation, to pay off these £2,000,000 in the course of the next year. That raised a totally new question for the consideration of the House. Last year £2,000,000 Exchequer bonds fell due, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer said that he would pay off the bonds, but take power at the same time to issue £2,000,000 more; and he held out the hope that the ways and means of the year would be sufficient to pay of £1,000,000.
 1437
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Then, the House was left in uncertainty on that point. This was a question wholly unconnected with the current service of the year. He wished distinctly to understand whether it was the intention of the Government to defray those £2,000,000 out of the Ways and Means or by re-borrowing. He had his doubts whether the Committee ought to vote this large sum of money without some explanation as to the intentions of Her Majesty's Government.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that of course there was nothing objectionable in keeping faith with the public creditor, but that House had certain constitutional rights and one of them was not to grant money until it was satisfied that the money would be properly applied. This was not a mere vote for carrying on the current services of the year, like the payment of soldiers' wages; it was one of an extraordinary character. He did not mean to say that he should ultimately object to this Vote, but the House was entitled, before consenting to it, to know something more than it knew at present. Let the Government state whether it was their intention to pay the £2,000,000 absolutely out of the Ways
 1438
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he was
 1439
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he trusted that the Vote would be postponed, and that the Committee would not consent to Vote £2,000,000 without knowing whether the money was to be paid out of the Ways and Means or borrowed.
 MR. WILSON  said, he did not object to the Vote being taken, but as in the middle of last week the Government balances were £500,000 below their engagements, and that amount of deficiency bills was required
 1440
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he thought the best course would be to agree to the Vote, but he maintained that, before it was finally sanctioned, the House ought to be informed whether it was intended that the debt should be extinguished out of the Ways and Means of the year, or whether the Government meant to extinguish it simply by the creation of a new loan. That was a reasonable question, and as he understood there was an engagement on the part of the Government that it should be answered on a future occasion, he would suggest that the Vote should be now agreed to.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he thought it was desirable that the Vote should now be taken, but the House was entitled to some further explanation, which might with perfect propriety be given upon the Report.
 LORD NAAS  stated that it was to carry on the works in progress there.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he wished to ask if it was intended to have an Appropriation Act?
 MR. WILSON  observed, that taking the Vote  in cumulo
 THE CHAIRMAN  intimated that the hon. Gentleman was out of order in discussing the question of Harbours of Refuge on that Vote.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, as this Vote included the costs of the Probate and Divorce Courts, he wished to take the opportunity of calling attention to the state of business in the Marriage and Divorce Court. The most serious complaints were made of the large arrear of business in that Court, which amounted, he believed, at the commencement of the term, to about 150 causes. It was due to the learned and able Judge who presided over the Court to say, that he was untiring in his exertions to cope with the pressure of business, so that with reference to the probate causes which came under his separate jurisdiction as Judge Ordinary, there was an arrear of only nine cases. It was, however, necessary that the Judges should attend the full Court, and the arrears had arisen, not from any want of industry on the part of the learned Judge Ordinary, but from the difficulty he had experienced in obtaining the assistance of other learned Judges. In cases of such a peculiar character as those which came before this Court delays were attended with much more serious inconvenience to the suitors than in cases of ordinary litigation where questions of property were concerned, and he had received many applications from persons who had instituted proceedings for divorce, who complained, that although their cases had been set down in the month of October last, there was no probability of their being decided until next November. So far as the
 1444
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he was deeply sensible of the great public inconvenience resulting from the state of affairs which had been brought under the notice of the Committee by the hon. and learned Member for Marylebone; but it was one thing to express—as he (the Attorney General) now did—his regret that the public should have been exposed to such serious inconveniences, and another, and a more difficult thing, to suggest a remedy under existing circumstances, and at the present moment. Notwithstanding the great ability and the close application of the learned Judge who presided over the Divorce Court, it was found impracticable to carry on the business of that Court with the same despatch as, he was glad to say, now prevailed in all the other Courts of the kingdom, and it was quite obvious that no effectual remedy could be applied except by the creation of additional Judges. The Committee were aware that under the existing law, in order to constitute a complete Divorce Court the attendance of certain of the common law Judges was indispensable; but those Judges, in consequence of their other numerous occupations, had found it impossible to attend in sufficient numbers and with sufficient regularity to carry on effectively the business of the Court. Efforts had been made by the learned Judges to assist Sir C. Cresswell, the Judge of the Divorce Court, but it had been found utterly impracticable to keep down the arrears of business. The subject had, of course, attracted the serious attention of Her Majesty's Government, and he hoped that a remedy might be applied at the earliest possible moment; but looking to the present state of public business and the approaching dissolution of Parliament, as well as the difference in opinion which existed as to the number, qualification and station of the Judges to be appointed, it was evidently almost impossible that any step could be taken until the new Parliament assembled. He could assure the Committee that not only had the matter engaged the attention of the Government, but that he would lose no time in communicating with noble and learned
 1445
 LORD NAAS  said, the Vote in this respect was only intended for the continuance of the works already commenced.
 GENERAL CODRINGTON  said, he would urge upon the Government the necessity of affording the Channel squadron opportunities for manœuvring on the sea. He thought the same principle of active service that was being carried out in the army at Alders hot might with great advantage be applied to the navy. In his opinion the single vessels at Gibraltar and the West Indies could not properly be considered as forming part of the Channel squadron.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : In justice to the right hon. the First Lord of the Admiralty, I must express my high estimation of the earnest zeal and great ability which have distinguished his administration of the affairs of the navy since his accession to office. Whenever this opportunity occurs, I shall be always ready to appreciate such services to my profession, and openly avow my opinion in any other event. The gallant Admiral (Sir Charles Napier) has with a just emphasis urged the maintenance of the Channel Fleet in the highest state of efficiency, as a matter of primary importance. I am happy to be assured that no officer is more qualified or certain to ensure it than its present commander Admiral Sir Charles Fremantle. The information I have received authorizes me to believe that the Channel squadron is at this moment perfect in the several evolutions of forming in line-of-battle—of order of Railing in divisions—or of taking up anchorage, and in all other duties; and when its services are demanded, will be found prepared to uphold the honour of the country and the distinguished character of the profession.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  observed, he would say but one or two words in answer to what has fallen from the right hon. Gentleman. He had already said, and he would again repeat, that in the statements he had made with reference to the navy, he never had the slightest intention of making a charge of any description against any gentleman connected with the Admiralty or the naval department. He had only, to the best of his ability as a naval officer, calculated what he thought was the expenditure upon the navy, guarding himself at the time by saying, that he should he very much obliged to his right hon. Friend if he could contradict the figures laid before the House. By the courtesy of his friend, Sir Baldwin Walker, he had, during the last half-hour been furnished with a copy of the paper written by the Surveyor of the Navy. Of course, he could not be expected now to enter into details, but he was bound to say that in that document he saw no substantial contradiction to the statements he had made respecting the alteration of certain ships. Be that as it might, he hoped that in the new Parliament a Committee would be appointed which would go very seriously into this expenditure in shipbuilding. Meanwhile he would venture to make a sugges-
 1449 "Formerly," he says, "and until the year 1819, the Navy Estimates used to contain, for each ship in course of building or repair, the following columns of information:—1. Name of the yard, royal or merchant, at home or abroad. 2. That of each ship. 3. Whether building, or nature of the repairs, and whether contracted for, or not; and whether Government did or did not supply any part of the materials. 4 and 5. The time when each ship was taken in hand, and when to be completed. 6 and 7. Charge for that year of hull, masts, yards, stores, &c., of that ship. 8. Total cost of the identical ship for that year.
 1450 "At the end of 1818 terminated some communications which my father, who had been Lord St. Vincent's secretary, and second secretary to the Board of Admiralty, and who all his life attended to naval affairs, had, by Lord St. Vincent's command, with Lord Melville, respecting the progress of work in our dockyards; when some of my father's statements were ascertained to be so very accurate, that he was supposed to have obtained sight of an official document which ought to have been considered confidential. To remove that impression he attended at the Board of Admiralty, and he did so to the 'entire conviction' of Lord Melville and of the Board. A part of the conversation (of every word of which I retain a memorandum) is to the present point. 'You have stated, Mr. Tucker,' said Lord Melville, 'that eight sail-of-the-line is the average annual produce of the yards. How did you get at that information?' 'From the Navy Estimates.' 'How so?' asked a Sea Lord? 'How? why thus:—The Navy Estimates show every line-of-battle ship building and repairing, and when she is expected to be finished, and by comparing the Estimates of one year with another, it will be seen when any ship had been launched or put out of dock.' The Members of the Board looked at each other and said nothing; but the very next Navy Estimates assumed the very unintelligible form in which, as regards ships, they have over since appeared; while upon ever other head they have ever since, year after year, given clearer and clearer information."
 LORD LOVAINE  said, it was perfectly necessary at times in the Navy, as it was
 1455
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  rose and said: If the present Vote had been proposed in the regular course of the Estimates I should have thought it my duty to make some comments upon it. As this is, however, merely a Vote on account, and as it will be necessary that the question should again be brought under consideration when the new Parliament assembles, I shall abstain from adverting to it further on this occasion. I hope, however, that I may, nevertheless, be permitted to take this opportunity to throw myself on the indulgence of the Committee while I reply to some observations which fell from the First Lord of the Admiralty in his statement in introducing the estimates a few weeks ago, and in which he impugned the conduct of the Board of Admiralty with which I was connected, in not paying sufficient attention to building larger line-of-battle ships, and leaving our navy in a state of relative inferiority as compared with that of the French. This statement, when made, was so contrary to anything which I could have anticipated from the right hon. Gentleman that I was not, at the moment, provided with the necessary documents to enable me to controvert it. I have, however, anxiously waited for this opportunity to reply to it, and, as I hope, successfully, to vindicate the course pursued in this respect by the Government of which I was a Member. The right hon. Baronet said, that the increase in the number of larger line-of-battle ships had not proceeded so rapidly as the requirements of the public service demanded, and, had he confined himself to that
 1456 1457 1458 "The First Lord had stated that we had forty two line of battle ships. The fact was that we had fifty-one, for the nine screw clock-ships, which he had excluded from his enumeration of ships-of-the-line, were among the most efficient of our line-of-battle ships." "As reference had been made to the French navy, he might state that he held in his hand a list of their screw line-of-battle ships with which he had been favoured by the French Minister of Marine. They amounted to thirty-one, so that the number of our steam line-of-battle ships was nearly double that of our allies. He was of opinion, therefore, that the first Lord might with great propriety rest upon his oars, and take the opportunity of consulting members of the naval service before he proceeded to add to the number of those vessels. Instead of increasing our line-of-battle ships he should appoint a committee to consider what description of vessels ought to be built." 1459 1460 1461 1462
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : All I can say is, that I copied these words from  The Times' The Times Montebello, 1463 1464 pari passu 1465 "If the present pressure continues at the close of the Session,—if, in point of fact, we find that the late Government was right, and that they did not exaggerate the requirements of the country, I shall have no hesitation in coming down to the House before Parliament is prorogued." 1466
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : What I said was, that eight line-of-battle ships were added to the Navy in 1858, as appears by a Return which I hold in my hand.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : Here is a Return, signed by Sir Baldwin Walker, Surveyor of the Navy, showing that of steam-vessels added to the navy in 1858 there were eight ships-of-the-line—namely, four built and four converted. That is the statement contained in paper 65 of the present Session, for which I moved on the 16th of February.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, be hoped the hon. Gentleman would not press his Amendment, as the Government, in taking a Vote on account, would undoubtedly limit their expenditure to purposes of absolute necessity, until the Estimate was brought as a whole before the House, when the question could be fully discussed.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : That statement the right hon. Gentleman will find includes the screw line-of-battle ships which were building and converting, as well as those which were afloat. Of those there were forty-two English and forty French. In February, 1858, however, when stating the number of ships immediately available for the defence of our
 1470
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the course suggested by the right hon. Baronet might entail an unnecessary loss of time. He believed that there was no real objection to this Vote. It was desirable, however, that some explanation should be given as to whether the debt was to be paid out of Ways and Means or by re-borrowing. Nevertheless, be thought that they might agree to the Vote, upon the understanding that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would enter into an explanation on the subject upon bringing up the Report.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, that although no one would question the power of the Government to advise Her Majesty to dissolve Parliament, it was equally well understood that it was not justifiable for them to take that course unless they had some hope of a majority being returned to sup-
 1421
 MR. MACKIE  said, he wished to ask the learned Lord Advocate when the Report of the Lunacy Commissioners for Scotland would be laid upon the table.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that with reference to the question put to himself by the hon. Baronet (Sir A. Agnew), the terms of the Commission and the Commissioners of Inquiry on the public-houses question were arranged and completed. The formal part of the affair—namely, the issuing of the Commission, only remained. The delay that occurred was occasioned by the desire of the Government to obtain such Commissioners as would be approved of in Scotland. Whether they were successful or not in that object remained to be seen. For the last day or two he was anxious to obtain the services of a noble Lord as a Commissioner, but owing to private circumstances, he was sorry to say the public would be deprived of the advantage of the noble Lord's services.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he saw nothing to prevent it. The issuing of the Commission, which was merely formal, was the only step now to be taken.
 MR SPEAKER  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman was perfectly in order.
 MR. MELLOR , said, that the explanation of the noble Lord was altogether incorrect. It was last year thoroughly understood that the business of the Court would be speculative, and the Attorney General for Ireland deprecated the appointment of three Judges, because he said two would be quite sufficient for all purposes; but it was thought that as Mr. Hargreaves was about to be pensioned off at his full salary, the country might as well have the advantage of his services. In the event, however, of his transference to England, where it was proposed to establish an Estates Court, the understanding was that the vacancy in Dublin would not be filled up. In his opinion a more rash and ill-considered appointment could not have been made, and he could not compliment the Government upon a desire to save the public money. It was a mere evasion to say the salaries of the Judges would not be paid by the country. They were paid by the suitors' fees, which was in truth the same thing. He could only repeat that his recollection of what passed last year was entirely different to that of the noble Lord. There was no intention to make a permanent provision for the Judges.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, he rose to order. A number of hon. Gentlemen had given notice of their intention to make Motions on going into Committee of Supply, and it was not fair that other questions should take precedence. He wished, therefore to inquire whether the hon. and learned Gentleman was not out of order in making observations on such a subject.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he was one of those fortunate Members who had caught the eye of the right hon. Gentleman during the recent debates, and consequently he had already had the opportunity of communicating his sentiments to the House on the subject of Reform, and was not going to discuss the question again then. He could, however, make allowance for the ardour of the hon. and learned Member for Wallingford (Mr. Malins), who had not enjoyed the same opportunity; but he must protest against that hon. and learned Member robbing the printers of Wallingford by making addresses in that House to his constituents. He thought they had had enough of Reform discussions, and had now better leave the battle to be fought out on the hustings. It was natural that the noble Lord should wish to make an explanation, but it would be of no use discussing the question further in a moribund Parliament. He was glad the Government had determined to dissolve, because he thought that a general election would put parties on a better footing. The object of his rising, however, was to ask a question. He wished to know whether it was true that the Government had appointed an hon. Member of that House to the vacant judgeship in the Irish Incumbered Estates Court, contrary to the report of the Commissioners.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he wished to know whether there had been a decrease of business in the Court.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would afford some explicit explanation respecting Dovor Harbour.
 MR. MALINS  observed, that this was a public debt which would fall due early in May, and the public honour required that it should be properly met; but the right hon. Member for Radnor (Sir George Lewis) and the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams) wished the Chancellor of the Exchequer to explain whether this debt was to be wholly discharged out of the revenue, whether it was to be continued, or whether it was to be partially paid off. It would, however, be impossible for the Chancellor of the Exchequer to afford the explanation requested without entering fully into a statement of the general finances of the country, and he thought it would be most unfair to force the right hon. Gentleman to adopt such a course in the present condition of public affairs. He hoped the Vote would now be agreed to, leaving the Chancellor of the Exchequer to make any statement he might think necessary on the Report.
 MR. MALINS  said, there was one thing which had given him extreme satisfaction in the course of this discussion, and that was the extraordinary uneasiness which was manifested by hon. Gentlemen opposite at the prospect of the impending dissolution. Hon. Gentlemen sitting on that side of the House were last week exceedingly bold and defiant with respect to Her Majesty's advisers recommending a dissolution of Parliament. Some hon. Members said that such a step was not to be thought of, whilst others boasted that they were perfectly indifferent about it. But once that a dissolution was resolved upon the cry was raised that it was unconstitutional, and that the advice which Ministers had given to the Crown was not in accordance with the first principles of the English constitution. The House might now judge what that assumed indifference meant. The noble Viscount the Member for Tiverton, in language of defiance so strong that, to his (Mr. Malins') mind, it was only comprehensible upon the assumption that the noble Viscount was in earnest, and intended to follow up his threat, had dared Her Majesty's Ministers to recommend a dissolution, and said that there must be no dissolution, because the House in the present state of public affairs could not be dissolved, and that he would take care that the Supplies which were necessary should not be forthcoming. If the noble Viscount was in earnest on that point why had he not followed it up? But instead of that he had contracted himself down to very small dimensions indeed. And how was that to be accounted for? Was it that the majority on which he
 1422
 MR. MALINS : As the hon. Baronet on the other side of the House, in his speech of triumph, had alluded to the issue now before the country, and the issue put before the country in 1857, he (Mr. Malins) could only hope that the issue which was put before the country by the noble Lord the Member for London and the noble Viscount opposite would be distinctly understood. The noble Lord the Member for London had told the House what his Reform Bill was to be; but was the noble Viscount the Member for Tiverton inclined to adopt that Bill? He had not the good fortune to hoar the noble Lord, but he understood that he had said that he was not for that Bill; and unless the reports which had reached him greatly deceived him the noble Lord had expressed himself to the effect that whenever the Bill sketched by the noble Lord the Member for the City was brought in he should be found among its most strenuous opponents. Upon that point the noble Viscount seemed to be somewhat ambiguous. What then was the issue tendered by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton? The noble Lord, in his own case, took the opportunity of dissolving, and if they now tendered issue, the noble Lord must accept it. Hon. Gentlemen opposite, even if they were in a state that by the union of parties not agreeing among themselves they could out number the Government, might yet find that there was no wish on the part of the majority for the retirement of the Government. This
 1423
 MR. MALINS  said, he believed that the present state of the Court for Divorce and Matrimonial causes was a great public evil, owing to the narrow area to which the selection of the Judges for the consideration of the full Court was limited it could not be assembled oftener than once in two months. The Committee had also been informed that there were not less than 150 cases in arrear, some of which had been waiting ever since October last, whilst there was no possibility of their being disposed of before November next. Now, that was a state of things which existed in no other tribunal in the country. In the Court of Chancery, for instance, it was never known that a case had to wait more than six weeks for hearing; and on the rising of that Court on the 26th of last month, virtually not a single case was left undisposed of. The hon. and learned Member for Marylebone was quite right in stating that if there were any part of the law on which there should be no delay, it was where an application had been made for a divorce; because, if the application were well founded, they could not too speedily have the question decided: whereas, if it were unfounded, they could not too speedily relieve families from that state of uncertainty and misery in which such an application must necessarily involve them. The delay, he feared, would continue certainly until June, and perhaps during the present year. He regretted that nothing could be done before the assembling of a new Parliament with a view to provide a remedy, and he apprehended that even when the new Parliament had met no remedy would be immediately applied. He trusted, however, that his hon. and learned Friend (the Attorney General) either in the present or early in the next Session would take an opportunity of setting a matter right which so loudly called for correction.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  replied that he could say nothing on that subject, but if the hon. Member would put a notice of his question upon the paper, he (Mr. Sotheron Estcourt) would answer it on a future day. As to the course that had been taken since Monday last by the
 1428 1429
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he begged to inform the hon. Member that a Judge had been appointed to the Incumbered Estates Court in Ireland, and that the Judge so appointed was an hon. Member of that House.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that the hon. and learned Member for Wallingford (Mr. Malins) had complained of several votes which had been given by hon. Members on the Opposition side of the House. Now, if the recent question had been as to the conduct of the present Administration, he for one would not have voted against them. For, so far as he could judge, they had conducted the business of the country well and wisely. He must, however, state that the issue before the country would not be "confidence or not in their administration of affairs." The Government had laid upon the table of the House a Bill which he (Mr. Lindsay) believed to be erroneous in principle and crude in its construction. The time to deal with the fundamental principles of the Bill was upon the second reading, and he had no other course left to him but to support the Resolution of the noble Lord, and with regret he did support it, because he thought it would lead to the overthrow of a Government which in more than one respect possessed his perfect confidence.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that he was one of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the subject of Harbours of Refuge, and he had devoted three or four months to that inquiry. The harbour of Dovor had not been inquired into, but he collected a good deal of information with respect to Dovor, which, with the permission of the Committee, he would lay before them. If they went on with the construction of Dovor on the small plan of Mr. Walker, it would cost £4,500,000, in his opinion, while the large plan would cost £6,000,000. He would put it to the right hon. Gentleman whether the better course would not be to complete the harbour as a packet station, without expending enormous sums with the view of rendering it available for military purposes. He thought the proper course would be to proceed in the first instance with the construction of harbours which were necessary for the convenience and safety of the mercantile navy, delaying further expenditure upon such works as those at Dovor and Alderney.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he rose to inquire as to the nature of the works at Kingstown Harbour, for which there was an item of £10,000?
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he would beg to draw attention to the fact that the Votes on account of the Harbours of Dovor and Alderney had been omitted.
 MR. LINDSAY  observed, that if this suggestion were acted on, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, in that case he would simply move that the Vote be reduced by the £10,000.
 MR. LINDSAY  remarked, that he saw from the newspapers that tenders had been invited for steam machinery, the supply of which used formerly to be confined to two or three firms. He should like to hear from the right hon. Baronet the price at which the engines were obtained by open competition, as compared with that given when a practical monopoly existed. Another point to which he wished to draw attention was, as to the anchors supplied to the Admiralty. Some seven or eight years ago he served on a Committee which condemned the Admiralty anchor as the worst of several which were examined, but this condemned anchor had, nevertheless, continued in use on board Her Majesty's ships ever since, while the supply remained a monopoly in the hands of the same individual, and the country had continued to pay the monopoly price. He should be glad to hear from the First Lord an explanation upon this point.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, with reference to the observations made by the right hon. Baronet (Sir John Pakington) with respect to the Admiralty anchor, he could only state he had taken his statement in reference to it from the Report of a Committee of that House, in which it was set forth that the Admiralty anchor was the worst of seven descriptions of anchors which had been brought under their notice. It appeared that the Admiralty, in accordance with their contract, paid at the rate of from £44 10 s. s. s.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to ask whether the Government had the money in hand, or would have to borrow it?
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, that a short time since the Minister of War had stated that henceforward the circular of Lord Hill would be strictly carried out, and "therefore the Host would not in future be saluted." Now, the third paragraph of the circular expressly directed the sentries to salute, and if that order was carried into effect the very evil complained of would arise. He hoped the right hon. and gallant General would be induced to reconsider the matter. He also wished to ask the Lord Advocate when the Royal Commission for inquiring into the working
 1430
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  asked, whether there was any reasonable prospect of the Commission issuing before Easter?
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, he trusted that any Committee which might be appointed in the new Parliament would begin at the beginning, and inquire into the constitution of the Board of Admiralty, and so proceed downwards to the dockyards. The House and the country were greatly indebted to present the Board of Admiralty
 1452
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, he thought that the right hon. Baronet ought to be a little more accurate before he ventured to contradict him. He believed that there were eleven ships-of-the-line in commission, but of these two had been sent to Gibraltar and one to the West Indies. He did not know whether the right hon. Baronet included these in the ships which he had just spoken of. Were the two ships at Gibraltar included by the right hon. Baronet in the Channel fleet? [Sir J. PAKINGTON: Yes.] He did not think it was fair of the First Lord to try and blind the House in that way, and to impute to him (Sir Charles Napier) statements which he had never made, and which he never intended to make.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, he thought that both the late and the present First Lord were to blame. The late First Lord was to blame for having paid off seven sail-of-the-line at the end of the Russian war; and the present First Lord was to blame for diminishing the dockyard Vote of last year, notwithstanding the three "submissions" which had been sent to him by the Surveyor of the Navy.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS : Sir, I wish to give notice to the noble Viscount the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston) that upon a future occasion, when the noble Viscount can more properly reply, I shall ask him whether he will be kind enough to be more precise in his information to the House as to his agreement with the noble Lord the Member for London (Lord John Russell) in respect to the Reform Bill; whether the noble Viscount will condescend to state what he proposes to do in respect to small boroughs that are only represented by one Member?
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he did not wish to refer to the topic with which this discussion had commenced, but he had always understood that there was an Order of the House against referring to anything that passed in the House of Lords. He fully concurred in the wisdom of that Order. He thought that it was wise to pay such respect to "another assembly," and that they should not amuse themselves or embitter their proceedings by references to what had passed in other places. But he should like to see some reciprocity recognized in regard to that principle. Otherwise, he thought circumstances might arise to render it necessary for the House of Commons to make a revision of that Order. If accusations and attacks were to be made personally upon Members of that House, and when such Members rose in their places to defend themselves, they were to be prevented by the Order of the House from
 1433 "On going into Committee of Supply on Post Office Estimates to call the attention of the House to the 13th article of the contract entered into by the Government for the conveyance of the mails between England and Ireland, by which the Postmaster General engages to pay the contractors £105,900 out of the revenue of the Post Office, contrary to the provisions of the Act 17 & 18  Vict.,
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, I do not suppose that any Member of this House would suggest a doubt of its being within the prerogative of the Crown to dissolve Parliament, but when the right hon. Baronet says that it is disrespectful to the Crown to suggest that the House of Commons will interfere between the advice of the responsible Government, upon which alone the Crown dissolves Parliament, and a dissolution, he is, I think, sacrificing the rights of the House, and stating a doctrine which ought not to pass without some comment. The right hon. Baronet must be aware that it is the constitutional privilege of this House to address the Crown upon matters of public policy and importance; and if, in the opinion of this House, great public inconvenience, great injury to the interests of this country, as well as great risk to the peace of Europe, as was suggested by Members of the Government, were likely to result from the dissolution of Parliament, it might have been the imperative duty of this House to interpose their advice between that tendered to Her Majesty by her responsible Ministers and the Act which was to follow it—namely, the dissolution of Parliament. My noble Friend suggested that it was not in the power of the Government alone to dictate what it was intimated that they intended to recommend—an immediate dissolution; and he only reminded the House that there were certain acts which must be done, before a dissolution took place, which rendered an immediate dissolution impossible, and that it was only by the concurrence of this House, by its giving the necessary facilities, that the advice which the Government might feel it their duty to give to the Sovereign could be acted upon. In that suggestion my noble Friend took perfectly constitutional ground. But the Government having recommended to the Sovereign an immediate dissolution have
 1420
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he was of opinion that the Vote for the scientific branch was one of the best in the Naval Estimates. He felt satisfied that his gallant Friend Sir Baldwin Walker had done his duty as Surveyor of the Navy. He wished now to ask the right hon. Gentleman (Sir John Pakington) whether he had had his attention drawn to the excellent plan invented by Captain Kynaston, of the Royal Navy, for lowering and raising ships' boats at sea. He understood that the apparatus had been supplied to Her Majesty's ships  Diadem, Euryalus, Royal Albert, Avon, Argus, St. Jean d'Acre,
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY : Are there any outstanding accounts for the China war?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  expressed a hope that the Appropriation Act would set out the details, and that these would be submitted to the House in print.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, there was no question as to the renewal of the bonds, but the Committee were asked to provide for their payment, and any explanation that was needed would, no doubt, be afforded by the Chancellor of the Exchequer on a future occasion.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he had always strongly objected to this mode of raising money which had deranged our finances ever since the Crimean war. These bonds were issued, in the first instance, to the amount of £6,000,000. He believed that of that amount £2,000,000 had been extinguished, and he wished to know whether £4,000,000 was yet due?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  remark-
 1442 in cumulo,
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he had taken no part in the late great debate, but he had taken a small share in that on the Reform Bill of 1832, and he then came to the conclusion that when a question of this kind was raised it ought to be finally settled as soon as possible, or it would lead to a complete paralysis of public business. On that account he regretted that the Government Bill had not been read a second time, as it might have been altered in Committee. He had risen, pursuant to the notice he had given, to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty to give some explanation of the excess of the naval expenditure for the year ending the 31st of March, 1858, over the amount voted and appropriated. The excess was no less than £828,596. It was stated the
 1431
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to call the attention, of the Committee to the fact that a hope had been held out by the Chancellor of the Exchequer last Session that £1,000,000 of these bonds would be paid off, and that there would consequently be only £1,000,000 of those Exchequer bonds to provide for.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he would answer both questions in Committee. He could not then do so, having already spoken on the question before the House.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he did not accuse the right hon. Gentleman of bringing forward this question improperly. As to the responsibility of the dissolution of Parliament, he (Sir John Pakington) thought that the right hon. Gentleman and his Friends were exclusively responsible for that proceeding.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the right hon. Gentleman (Sir George Lewis) had referred to the constitutional right of that House in respect to matters of finance. But no one had ever called those rights into question. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to think that one of those rights was to enter as largely as possible into questions of finance in the absence of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He thought that the right hon. Gentleman had largely availed himself of the absence of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to enter into this matter. The right hon. Gentleman could not, he was sure, expect from him (Sir John Pakington), the only Member of the Cabinet present, to enter into this question which was altogether extraneous to his own department, or to anticipate in any degree the financial statement of his right hon. Colleague. But so far as he understood the question, the proposal was, to ask the House for authority to pay off £2,000,000 of a debt which would fall due on a day when it was very well known there would be no Parliament sitting, and for the payment of which the Government had not the means. It was merely a proposal to provide for that emergency. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Radnor said that the course pursued was unsatisfactory, and that they ought to know before the House of Commons consented to the grant what were the intentions of the Chancellor of the Exchequer with regard to the permanent arrangement on the subject of those bonds. The best explanation he could give was, as his right hon. Friend was not present, that this Vote should be postponed until to-morrow, or some more convenient time. The Government had no desire to take the House by surprise.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  observed, that he was not aware that, in the preparation of these Votes on account, any Estimate for the works at the harbours referred to had been omitted. He would certainly have asked for a Vote on account, because he was satisfied that it was most desirable to proceed with the works in question, and he hoped that before the new Parliament met, the hon. Member for Tynemouth (Mr. Lindsay) would reconsider his avowed intention to oppose all Votes for these purposes. The question fairly open to the decision of the House was one of degree—how much further the works at these two harbours should be carried; but he hoped that no hon. Gentleman would endeavour to induce the House to stop altogether these important works which had been carried on at great cost for a series of years. The abandonment of the works in their present state would be a course most injurious to the public interest.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that as the matter was put by the right hon. Baronet (Sir George Lewis), the explanation required would involve a general financial statement for the year. What he (Sir John Pakington) had intended to state was, that the money was in hand to pay off £2.000,000, but he had not meant in any way to compromise his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, or to anticipate the financial statement which it might be his right hon. Friend's duty to make. He did not dispute the right of the right hon. Gentleman opposite to put his question, but if he made his assent to the Vote conditional upon the answer he might receive, the better course would be to postpone the Vote to another evening, when the Chancellor of the Exchequer would he prepared to afford an
 1441
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  replied, that the money was in hand; and the only question was, whether Parliament would authorise its appropriation.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : The right hon. Gentleman appears to be labouring under a misapprehension as to what fell from me upon a former occasion. I never said anything so absurd as that any want of respect was shown to the Crown in not entertaining the Reform Bill; but I did say, that the language of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, on the subject of a dissolution, trenched upon the Royal prerogative, and was wanting in respect to the Crown.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I cannot allow the statement of the noble Viscount to pass altogether unnoticed. He has replied to the language held in "another place" by a person whom the noble Viscount says, holds a very high position in this country. Of course there can be no misunderstanding on the part of the House to whom the noble Viscount refers, and, therefore, I think it my duty to state, so far as I am aware, what was the language of the person to whom the noble Viscount alludes. I am not of opinion that that language is at all open to the criticism which the noble Viscount has passed upon it; but the noble Viscount must bear in mind that the language so attributed to a noble Earl in "another place" was held by myself in this House—not, of course, in exactly identical terms, but certainly in terms of a very similar nature. I am very glad that the noble Viscount has offered this explanation; but I must repeat that which I ventured to ex-
 1418 1419
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Now that the right hon. Gentleman has made that explanation, I must say I think he was not dealing candidly with the House, seeing that in his statement on the 18th of May, 1857, when referring to the comparative force of the two countries, he included in the list of English of-the-line ships which were only in course of construction, and many of which are not launched even at this moment. I should have had no objection to the right hon. Gentleman making that statement if he had plainly told the House what he actually meant; but he did no such thing. The House will do me the justice to remark, that in my statement the other night I mentioned how many ships we were building and converting, and what the state of those ships was; but the right hon. Gentleman was not so explicit on the 18th of May, 1857, for he merely said we had then forty-two screw ships-of-the-line, and the French forty. I think every man who heard that statement of the right hon. Gentleman, or read it, would be led to the belief that that was the effective force at that moment; and nobody could ever suppose that the right hon. Gentleman was practically, though not intentionally, misleading the House and the country by stating the number of ships which the country could only suppose were effective, but including, in reality, the ships which now, two years after, are still on the stocks and yet unlaunched. I think the House and the country have a right to complain of the right hon. Gentleman's statement as wanting in candour and ingenuousness. If the force was then in the state in which he has now explained, it was his duty as First Lord of the Admiralty to have said so frankly to the House. I confess I cannot understand, if that was his meaning, how he could have been so wanting in ingenuousness as not to tell the House that, instead of having forty-two ships afloat, we had on his own showing I know not how many; for, in the following month of January we had only twenty-five effective line-of-battle ships. When I succeeded to office I found a fleet with only twenty-five or twenty-six line-of battle ships, and that the right hon. Gentleman had proposed an addition of £100,000 to increase the force. What had he done to correct that state of
 1471 1472 1473
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I am not aware of any outstanding accounts connected with the Navy.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he could assure his noble and gallant Friend that he should always be happy to receive a lesson from whatever quarter it came, provided only it was a good one; and he thought he might venture to say that he had already afforded proof to this House that he had no desire for any concealment in these matters, of anything which it was desirable for the public service should be made known. He would, therefore, at once accept the suggestion of his noble Friend, and during the recess turn his attention to the subject. It would be his duty to prepare fresh Estimates after the recess, and he would consider in a  bonâ fide
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : It now becomes my duty to ask the Committee to
 1446 1447 1448
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was sorry to find the hon. and gallant Admiral so angry at what he had said. When he spoke of the ten line-of-battle-ships, he meant ships attached to, and connected with, the Channel squadron. The vessels which the gallant Admiral alluded to as having gone to Gibraltar might, in a few days, return; they had never been attached to the Mediterranean fleet, and might, therefore, justly be numbered among the Channel squadron.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  observed, that he thought the hon. and gallant Admiral's anxiety for the efficiency of the fleet carried him occasionally beyond the bounds of accuracy. The hon. and gallant Admiral began his statement by saying we had in some way or other a Channel squadron of six or seven sail-of-the-line; but before he sat down he talked of that squadron as amounting to nine sail-of-the-line. Now what did the hon. and gallant Admiral mean by that inconsistency? The Admiralty did not want to take credit for more than they had done; but the Channel fleet really consisted of ten sail-of-the-line and six frigates, some of the latter being amongst the most powerful and efficient frigates ever seen in this country. [Sir CHARLES NAPIER: Hear, hear!] The hon. and gallant Admiral, moreover, not content with making contradictory statements, had proceeded to lecture the Board of Admiralty with respect to the places in which the Channel squadron was kept. In his opinion, however, it must be left to the Admiralty and the officers commanding to decide when the fleet ought to go to sea and when it ought to stay at home. This was a matter on which he could not take counsel from even so high an authority as the hon. and gallant Admiral himself. He could assure the Committee that the Admiralty were fully alive to the importance of improving the discipline of the squadron, and would leave nothing undone to effect that object. In reply to the observations of the hon. Member for Tynemouth (Mr. Lindsay) as to extension of the area within which tenders for steam-engines might be received, he could only say that the monopoly which formerly existed—if it were a monopoly—had been destroyed, and that several houses had been invited to send in such tenders. He trusted, however, that he should be excused if he did not enter further into detail
 1453 Diadem,
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : That is not correct. It is not in my speech, which I have here.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I am aware that of all the questions which come under the consideration of the House none are of so painful a character, and none are so distasteful to the House as allusions of a personal character. I do not blame the right hon. Baronet, if he think the statements which I recently made with respect to the condition of the navy bore hardly upon him, for entering upon a defence; but I think he has imputed to me charges which I never made; and, next, I think he has failed in his endeavour to vindicate his own administration of the navy. The right hon. Gentleman has extended his observations to such a length that, at this hour (a quarter past five), I fear I shall scarcely be able to reply to them so fully as I could desire. He complains of this passage in my statement on introducing these Estimates:—
 "I may state at once that we ask for this great addition to the cost of ship-building, because I am bound to say that when I succeeded to office I did not find the navy of this country in a proper and adequate state for the defence of our coasts and the protection of our commerce." "I cheerfully do justice to former Governments, and especially to that which immediately preceded us, to which in regard to many points great credit
 1467 "It will be seen that during the time that that right hon. Gentleman was at the Board of Admiralty considerable additions of the smaller vessels were made, such as corvettes, sloops, and, above all, gunboats. I am not sure whether the addition of gunboats had not commenced in the time of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle; but our present gunboats were chiefly added by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Halifax, and I do not think a more valuable addition has ever been made to the navy than those: gunboats." "Those additions were chiefly made in 1856; they had reference to the war then going on with Russia; and the right hon. Gentleman very naturally added vessels of a class suited to the emergency of the moment; but while a considerable force of those gunboats and sloops was added to the navy, the line-of-battle ships and frigates did not increase in the ratio which the interests of the public service demanded. On the contrary, the result of the war was actually to check the progress which ought to have been made in augmenting the number of line-of-battle ships." "Nevertheless, it would be unwise not to continue building a certain number of ships of a large size. We must look to what other nations are doing in this respect. It is plain that no great naval engagement could be maintained in the middle of the Atlantic between line-of-battle ships and gunboats. The French are building large and more powerful line-of-battle ships than ourselves; the United States also are building a class of frigates larger than any we have." "He had never said, as had been supposed, that we must bring the numerical proportion of our
 1468
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Well, I hold in my hand a printed Return, showing that there were only four added—namely, the  Donegal, Windsor Castle, Hero, Edgar. 1469
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I hold in my hand a Return from which it appears that, instead of eight, the number is only four.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to state that the Appropriation Act would take the form of that of 1857.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, his attention had been already called to the matter, and he would confess that it was an oversight in the contract and had arisen in the manner alluded to. At the same time, it would not have the effect of withdrawing the money from the control of Parliament, because it would be certainly voted by the House. He quite concurred with the right hon. Gentleman in thinking that the clause in question, being an obsolete one, should not appear in any future contract. Nothing was further from the intention of the Government than to depart from the terms of the Act of 1854. He regretted that the events of the Session prevented him from laying on the table of the House the papers, according to which they proposed to carry into effect the recommendations of the Public Monies Committee.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  was understood to say that none of the bonds in question had been extinguished, but he believed they were all out.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, it was, and the various Votes would be set out in the Act.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, the necessity of obtaining a Vote to pay those Bills was obvious. The bonds would become due on the 8th of May, and if faith with the public creditor were to be kept, the Government must have authority to pay him. He understood the hon. Member for Devonport to argue that if the Committee were to give the authority they were now asking for to the Government, it necessarily implied that the Government were to renew the debt in some other way. He protested against that inference altogether. It was not possible for him at that moment to anticipate the financial statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. All they asked was to be empowered to keep good faith with the public creditor.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, the additional million had been issued. That, however, was a matter to be explained in the general financial statement when it came under consideration.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he could not anticipate the financial statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  explained that what the House was asked to do was to authorize the Government to pay the Exchequer bonds issued in May, 1854, and redeemable in May, 1859. If the House were dissolved before the 8th May, the Government would not be able to pay off these bonds without a vote authorizing them to do so.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Perhaps,
 1435 Cries of 
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I wish, Sir, to take this opportunity of making a personal explanation, rendered necessary by something that was said with respect to my conduct,—where and by whom I am not acording to the rules of the House at liberty to specify, but it is sufficient to say, by a person whose authority in this country is considerable, not longer ago than on Monday last. I have been accused of unconstitutional conduct in questioning the prerogative of the Queen to dissolve Parliament when Her advisers may think fit, and upon whatever subject they may deem it right to dissolve. Now, Sir, I never said anything that could bear that construction. No man in his senses who knows anything of the British constitution can question the prerogative of the Crown, upon the advice of responsible Ministers—because the Crown can exercise no part
 1416 1417
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that since a question had been asked of his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary on this subject inquiries had been made into the matter, and he was informed that the Law Officers of the Crown three or four years ago had expressed their opinion that the prisoners under this Act could he treated as persons guilty of misconduct, and be subjected to severe restrictions. On looking at the Act of Parliament he found that there was certainly a power, when Insolvent Debtors came before County Court Judges, and it was proved they were guilty of fraud or making away with their effects, to subject them to that rigorous imprisonment; but County Court Judges had also the power of imprisoning persons who answered the Court in what was deemed an unsatisfactory manner, and the
 1509
 LORD NAAS  said, two Bills had been prepared—one a Leasing Powers Bill, and the other a Bill for amending the Law of Landlord and Tenant in Ireland, but it would be impossible to lay them on the Table during the present Session. At the earliest possible moment, however, after the meeting of the new Parliament they would be forthcoming. With regard to the second part of the question, such an explanation had been received.
 LORD NAAS  said, the Leasing Powers Bill was very much the same, and the second Bill included a Tenants' Compensation Clause, but of course he could not state then what the nature of the proposal would be.
 LORD NAAS  replied, that it was not the intention of the Government to proceed with the Ecclesiastical Court and Registry Bill. The remarks of Baron Greene had been brought under the notice of the Irish Government, and it was the intention of the Lord Lieutenant to draw the attention of the Commissioners of the National Board to them.
 MR. FITZROY   brought up
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  observed, that some discussion took place the day previous on the Vote of £2,000,000 for the payment of Exchequer bonds falling due in May next, and it was understood that some explanation would be given to-day by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer as to the intentions of the Government with regard to this debt, and that the House would be informed whether it was intended simply to pay off these bonds and hereafter to ask for power to renew them or create a debt in some other manner of equivalent amount, or whether it was intended to defray the sum out of the Ways and Means of the year, without asking for power to create an equivalent amount of debt.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to inquire whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer had a surplus of revenue to the amount of £2,000,000 to pay off the bonds?
 MR. WILSON  said, he thought that whatever department had the management of the packets ought to have the control of the Vote, and it would never do, where the packets were so large, and required so much skill, that the Post Office should have the control of the Vote. He quite agreed that this Vote ought not to be included in the Navy Estimates to swell the amount, but he hoped that the Admiralty would not divest itself of duties so well performed as were the duties of the packet service.
 MR. WILSON  said, he would suggest that the best way to correct the evil would be to make this vote a Treasury Vote.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to call attention to the expenditure incurred for the clothing of the Guards as compared with the regiments of the line. The annual cost of the clothing of the Horse Guards was £8 15 s. d. s. s. d. s. d.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, that he was surprised that the hon. Gentleman should find matter for complaint, as there was no difference whatever in the clothing of the Guards for this as compared with previous years; but there had been a reduction of £5,000 under this head. He did not think much fault could be found with the cost of the clothing of the army when the line were supplied at only £2 6 s. d.
 GENERAL CODRINGTON  remarked, that he had heard an hon. Gentleman, a member of the Contracts' Committee, say that the change to what was called the Weedon system had cost this country at least £100,000 a year, besides destroying the responsibility which used to prevail in regard to the clothing. But the system had again been changed; the War Office now made the contracts direct with the different firms, and the responsibility, in-
 1516
 GENERAL PEEL  observed, that a supplemental arrangement had been made to be met by this Vote of £30,000 for the establishment at Woolwich of a manufactory of Sir William Armstrong's guns under his immediate superintendence.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he had had no notice of the question, and therefore he could not enter into so full an explanation as he could wish when speaking merely from memory; but as far as he recollected, an expense of nearly £13,000 had been already incurred in the trial of this mortar, and the last report of the Ordnance Committee was to the effect that they did not consider it advisable to continue these experiments. He did not say that the experiments should not be renewed, but at the present moment the Ordnance Committee did not think it advisable to incur any further expenditure in this way. He would, however, put himself in a position to be able to give the noble Lord a more circumstantial reply.
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, he wished to inquire whether the Government intended to persevere in their determination to send out twelve batteries of Artillery to India. The noble Lord the Secretary for India the other night had stated such to be their intention; but he had given no sufficient reasons for sending out so large a force at this period, when the rebellion was at an end, and there was no longer any enemy in the field. He thought that there would be a great risk incurred in the sending out twelve batteries of Artillery. He should wish to know whether the Government were or would be prepared, on some future occasion, to enter into a more detailed explanation upon this subject.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, a requisition had been made by the Indian Government for twelve batteries of Artillery; but the noble Lord the Secretary for India and the Council for India, having duly considered the matter and the present state of our Eastern Empire, decided upon sending out only half the amount of the force required. It was deemed absolutely necessary to have a larger force of European Artillery than of Native. The proportions of the European and the local force were regulated by the report of the Indian Commission.
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, as he understood the requisition, it was for twelve batteries, without the guns — that they simply wanted the men in India. He believed that there were plenty of guns out in India as well as stores of all kinds.
 GENERAL PEEL  was understood to say that some large batteries had already gone out.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he thought some misapprehension prevailed as to the reason why it was in contemplation to send out the Artillery in question to India. As far as he could gather from the observations of the hon. and gallant General, he seemed to suppose that it was intended to send it out as a force in excess of that which had existed in that country before the mutiny. Such, however, was not the case. The fact was, that a large portion of the Native Artillery of Bengal had mutinied during the recent outbreak. A deficiency had therefore been created in that province in that particular arm of the service, and in August last Viscount Canning had written home a statement of his opinion as to what ought to be the amount of the Artillery force which should be maintained in India. Now, if there was one point in reference to which there was a greater concurrence of opinion among military authorities both at home and in India than another, that point was that the great bulk of the Artillery in that country should be European, and not Native. It was necessary in the judgment of the Governor General to fill up the void caused by the desertion of the Native Artillery of Bengal. There was no question that that would be filled up by Europeans,
 1520
 LORD STANLEY  said, it was a Minute of the Governor General, dated in August last.
 LORD STANLEY  observed, that even if the twelve batteries originally intended had been sent out, the force of Artillery in India would still be below the usual amount before the rebellion.
 GENERAL PEEL  hoped that he should be able to lay upon the table of the House before its prorogation the report of the Commission upon the Organization of the Army in India. He thought it would not be right to prejudge the question by entering into details before they had seen the report. With respect to the hon. and gallant General's proposition to hand over Woolwich gun factory to Sir William Armstrong, he (General Peel) could not give his assent. So far from there being an excess of guns on hand he could assure the Committee that requisitions for 68-pounders from many of our most important garrisons still remained unfulfilled.
 GENERAL PEEL  observed, that the hon.
 1522
 LORD STANLEY  replied, that he was not aware that there was at present any considerable number of unemployed officers. He apprehended that most of the officers referred to had found employment, some in the new levies and some in civil employ.
 GENERAL PEEL  replied in the negative.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, he thought that the country was much indebted to the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) for having devoted his attention to the matter; and, as Her Majesty's Government had met him in so fair a spirit, he (Mr. James) would take the liberty of suggesting to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department that, at the most, all that was necessary to be preserved of the existing enactments having reference to newspapers was 6 & 7  Will.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  observed that all parties were agreed that the statutes which required security to be given ought to be repealed, and that those which required the printer's name to be attached should be retained. The only point for consideration was, whether the law which required newspapers to be registered at Somerset House ought to be repealed or not. He admitted that there were no means of enforcing that law; but, on the other hand, it was possible to provide some better means of registration. He thought the better course for him to take would be to move that the light hon. Gentleman should leave the Chair, which would terminate the Bill for the present Session.
 LORD BURGHLEY  said, he also trusted that the decision would be reconsidered. The club consisted of 200 gentlemen, and they felt it was a harsh proceeding on the part of the Admiralty to withdraw the privilege of using the white flag from their squadron.
 MR. LYGON  said, that the Admiralty had no objection to the production of the correspondence moved for, and though he could hardly say that they were prepared to reverse the decision arrived at, they would be anxious to meet the views of the hon. Gentleman as far as they could consistently with their duty.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he wished to know what was done with the officers of the late Bengal Native Artillery? Were those who were unemployed on full pay?
 LORD LOVAINE  explained that all English clubs were not entitled to the use of the white flag.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that after the suggestion made by the Secretary for the Home Department he should not ask the House to proceed further with the Bill this Session.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to ask the Government for a statement of their intentions with respect to this Bill.
 MR. LEFROY  said, he would beg to ask whether the attention of the Government has been directed to certain observations of Baron Greene, when passing sentence upon Sullivan (one of the Masters under the National Board) as convicted of being engaged in a conspiracy to dethrone Her Majesty, &c., where his Lordship stated, "I regret to say the evidence tends
 1510
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had intended to make his usual financial statement on Monday next; but it was now impossible, in the peculiar circumstances of the House, to make that intended statement. The House would admit that it would be unfair to press him to make anything like a partial statement at the present time; but with respect to this particular Vote, he begged to state that, by the arrangements which he had
 1511
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. Gentleman, if he should be present when he made his statement, would then have the opportunity of criticising it with his usual acumen; but at present he would content himself with saying that he should pay out of the Consolidated Fund this engagement of the country when it became due.
 COLONEL FRENCH  asked, whether it was intended to break up the fine artillery service of the late East India Company.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, that no reason had been assigned for revoking the permission granted to the Royal Western Yacht Club of Ireland, and he trusted that the white ensign would be restored to them.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, the Bill was a most improper one, both in principle and detail. If it were just in principle, which he denied, every banker and merchant ought to provide superannuation allowances for his clerks and every private person for his servants.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, he wished to know whether in substance the two Bills referred to by the noble Lord were the same as the two which had already been before the House, and whether the Government contemplate introducing a Tenants' Compensation Bill?
 MR. MOORE  said, he hoped to see the day when contract packets would no longer be maintained, but when ships belonging to the Royal Navy would be employed in the mail service under the command of merritorious officers, to whom such employment would be a reward, and a nucleus would thus be formed for keeping up an efficient force of seamen, who would be available in case of necessity. No less than £1,000,000 was now expended annually upon the mail contract service, which might be applied in such a manner as to secure a reserve of able and experienced seamen, who might at once be available in case of emergency. One of the conditions of the mail contracts was, that the ships employed in that service should be fitted in such a manner and should be of such strength as to be capable of carrying the heaviest guns used in Her Majesty's Navy, but he believed that out of the immense fleet of vessels employed as contract packets there was not one which was fitted for carrying guns according to the contract. He hoped this subject would receive the attention of the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty, and that an end would be put as soon as possible to the present system of contracts. Such contracts might be advantageous in establishing new communications, but he held that when trade was once opened to any part of the world the continuance of a system of subsidies was most injurious to the public interests. He believed that not one of the companies who supplied contract packets paid back to the Post Office in revenue the amount they received for the contracts. He had seen it stated that £30,000 was paid annually for carrying the South American mails, and that the revenue returned was £32,000; but this contract was merely a rider to another contract of £240,000 for carrying the West India mails, and he should like to know what were the postal returns upon that contract.
 MR. GREER  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland whether the proposed Tenants' Compensation Bill for Ireland will be laid on the Table of the House before the Prorogation of Parliament; and also whether he has obtained any explanation with regard to the eviction of the Rev. Doctor O'Fay?
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, that when this Bill came on for a second reading his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General intimated that there were objections to some of its provisions. There were two classes of legislative enactments with which the Bill proposed to deal. One referred to security, the other to registration. The Solicitor General said as to security there were enactments that had become obsolete from circumstances, or which were never put in force; and his hon. and learned Friend was willing to accede to such provisions of the hon. Member's (Mr. Ayrton's) Bill as dealt with those Statutes or portions of Statutes. But with regard to the provisions under the head of registration his hon. and learned Friend reserved his opinion. Since the second reading of the Bill he (Mr. S. Estcourt) had received a memorial from the Society for Promoting the Repeal of
 1524 1525
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  remarked that there was nothing novel in the proposition before the House; for, in 1855, the right hon. Member for the University of Oxford proposed a Bill to abolish both the security and the registration required of newspapers. It was considered maturely by the Government in 1855, and they were prepared to legislate pretty much in the manner now proposed by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State would, therefore, find in his department, ready to his hand, all the information that might be required for a consideration of the question. He (Mr. Milner Gibson) submitted that the principle which should be acted upon was this that no rule should be applied to newspapers that was not applied to all other publications. If it were considered necessary that the printer's name should appear on newspapers, let it also
 1526
 MR. WEGUELIN  said, that as one of the Commissioners who had originally investigated this subject, he was desirous of expressing his belief that the Bill contained the only practical conclusion that could be come to upon it. The revision of salaries referred to could only be prospective, as it was almost impossible to reduce the salaries of existing officers. The Bill might throw an additional charge upon the revenue for the present, but ultimately it would result in a saving to the country.
 MR. COGAN  said he wished to call the attention of the House to a letter from the Lords of the Admiralty to the Royal Western Yacht Club of Ireland, dated the 26th day of June, 1858, withdrawing the privilege of wearing the white ensign from that club, although granted them by Royal Warrant, dated the 6th day of February, 1832, and confirmed by letters of the Admiralty of the 30th day of July, 1849, and the 29th day of April, 1853, and ratified by Vote of the House of Commons, of the 29th day of July, 1853, and to move for—
 "Copies of all Correspondence relating to the Warrant granted to the Royal Western Yacht Club of Ireland, especially those in the years 1832, 1842, 1849, 1853, and 1858, and particularly the Admiralty Warrant to the Royal Western Yacht Club of Ireland, of the 6th day of February, 1832, and Letters of the 31st day of July, 1849, the 29th day of April, and the 2nd day of May, 1853; also Letter addressed by the late Maurice O'Connell, Esq., M.P., to the Lords of the Admiralty, and Sir James Graham's reply, dated the 23rd day of May, 1853. Of any Letters or Minutes of any applications made by the Royal St. George's, the Holyhead, or any other Yacht Club, for permission to wear the White Ensign, with the Answers thereto. Of any Memorials or
 1527
 MR. HUGHES  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Attorney General what steps (if any) have been taken to prevent the practice of imprisoning Debtors who are confined under judgments of County Courts in a Remand Ward; and if any inconvenience would arise by making the rule applicable to Fraudulent Debtors, and not to mere cases of contempt for non-payment.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that the First Lord of the Admiralty had intimated his intention of bringing forward some plan dealing with the retirement list, and he wished to know whether anything had been done in respect to that plan.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he would remind the noble Lord that the void caused in the Bengal army by the destruction of the Native Artillery had been already supplied. He hoped for the sake of the finances of India that the Government would not persevere in their intention.
 COLONEL SYKES  observed, that when the requisition for those batteries had been made, the rebellion was raging in India, and that there was no prospect of its being immediately quelled. Now, however, that India lay prostrate at our feet, and that her financial embarrassments were so great, it was, he thought, highly inexpedient to encumber her with an additional force of 3,000 men, who would be obliged to go into cantonments, and would be insufficiently provided with barrack accommodation.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, that Parliament had been extremely liberal already in respect to retirement; and the consequence was, that a great many good officers, some much younger than others remaining in the service, had been put out of commission. He, of course, could not tell what the First Load of the Admiralty contemplated, but he hoped that the House of Commons would not agree to give a single sixpence more for retiring allowances, because the steps taken already were ample.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, that he should like to see this charge taken away from these Estimates altogether. The Packet Service was much more connected with the Post Office than the Navy, and the money ought to be provided for under that head.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  remarked, that he did not concur in the views of the hon. Gentleman. If our men-of-war were devoted to the conveyance of letters alone to
 1514
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, he considered this was one of the most improper and uncalled-for Bills the House
 1523
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he wished to know what was the date of the requisition which had been referred to. For his own part, he was of opinion that even one-half of the twelve batteries in question ought not to be sent out to India. Nobody who was acquainted with the subject could for one moment doubt the efficiency of the artillery employed by the East India Company, to the admirable quality of which both the late Lord Hardinge and Sir Charles Napier had borne testimony. He could not help thinking under those circumstances that there were strong objections to the discontinuance of the local artillery in India. [General PEEL: Nobody proposes to do that.] He was under the impression that it was proposed to discontinue the European Artillery now in India, and if he were right in that view he should beg the gallant General to bear in mind that any artillery force which might be sent out from England to supply its place must, for a time, be comparatively inefficient, owing to the non-acquaintance of the officers and men with the language and habits of the Natives. He might also observe that during the recent rebellion 400 pieces of cannon and about 1,000,000 stand of arms had been taken from the enemy, that 800 forts had been destroyed—so that the fact, in reality, was that the artillery in India was in excess of what was required. That being so, it would, bethought, be a most unwise proceeding at a moment when the aspect of Europe was so ominous to send out even the reduced number of thirty-
 1519
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  asked the date of the requisition.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he wished that they had received some further explanation before the Vote was agreed to.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he thought the Government was practically prejudging the question by sending out Artillery before the report of the Commission had been presented. The requisition of the Governor General was made in August, when India was in the midst of a fearful struggle, and the Government were now going to comply with it to the extent of one-half when the war had completely ceased. He believed that even at present there were 133 pieces of the Royal Artillery in India besides the European guns. There were some persons who desired to get rid of the local force altogether, and the public could not help thinking the Government must have some other reasons for the course they were taking than those which they had stated.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he was anxious to call the attention of the First Lord of the Admiralty to the valuable invention of Captain Kynaston, R.N., for lowering boats from the quarter and stern of ships when going fast through the water, by which means many lives might be saved. The value of the invention had lately been demonstrated on board Her Majesty's ship  Euryalus
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he believed that the cost of British Artillery in India was not greater than that of European artillery in India. He thought that the Government ought to take care that no unnecessary expenditure should be incurred under the present embarrassed state of the Indian treasury.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he rose not for the purpose of opposing the third reading of this measure, but to ask the Government for an estimate of the expense which its provisions would entail on the country.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that when at the Admiralty in 1832 he advised that the white flag should be extended to the Royal Western Yacht Club of Ireland, and he was sorry that the decision then come to had been revoked without any allegation of improper conduct on the part of
 1528
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  observed, that he was afraid the gallant Admiral had misunderstood what he (Sir John Pakington) had said on a former occasion. He had not said that the invention was now under the consideration of the Lords of the Admiralty, but that the experiments upon, and trials of the invention were not yet completed, and that the Admiralty were not yet in possession of any report on the subject. He sympathized most sincerely with Captain Kynaston under his sufferings, which were the results of valuable services rendered to his country, and he also felt grateful to that gallant officer for the endeavours he had made to bring to perfection a most useful invention for the preservation of life. He heartily hoped, for the sake of the gallant officer, that his invention might prove successful, but he
 1515
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was quite of opinion that the Vote ought not to belong to the Navy Estimates, with which it had really nothing to do. It was formerly connected with the Post Office Estimates, and he confessed he thought it ought to be so still.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that of course he must submit if there was a reason for attaching this Vote to the Navy Estimates, which must then continue to be swelled out by an expenditure with which the naval service had nothing to do.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he could only answer the question in the terms in which he expressed himself when he introduced the Navy Estimates. He had
 1512
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  stated, in reply, that the increase of expenditure consequent upon the passing of the Bill might possibly be £70,000 a year at the utmost, taking into account the additions to be made by taking in a new class of officers, and the possible effect of an alteration in the scale. £40,000 was estimated as the possible addition by taking in the officers of the Post Office, £10,000 by admitting other officers, and £20,000 by an alteration in the scale. The hon. Member for Devonport (Mr. Wilson) who had paid much attention to the subject, originally estimated the total increase in the expenditure at £100,000, but his (Sir S. North-cote's) belief was, that £50,000 would be nearer the truth.
 SIR ERSKINE PERRY  said he must again appeal to the Government to suspend their order for the embarcation of the six batteries until the whole question had been considered and decided.
 SIR ERSKINE PERRY  said, he heard with regret from the noble Lord that he had not complied with the real requisition of the authorities in India which, as he understood, was only to recruit for the local European Artillery from this country; and that the Government were going to send out six batteries of the Royal Artillery to India. It was quite true that a large proportion of the Native force had mutinied; but we had still all the officers remaining true. The intention of the Government, if carried out, would entail a heavy charge upon India. Now, all military authorities concurred in saying that the Indian Artillery was the best in the world. We had this skilled Artillery in India at present, and also officers there who were men of twenty and twenty-five years' standing. The young officers who were going out to
 1521
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he wished to ask what had been done with regard to the large mortar invented and made by Mr. Mallet. He understood that there had been several trials of this weapon, that in the main it had succeeded, and that, though parts of the mortar had at different times given way, these defects had been on each occasion remedied. At the last experiment one of the stays which held together the segments of which the mortar was compounded, being more tightened than the other stays, and having therefore to bear the whole strain of the explosion, gave way, but another stay was ready, and that accident was no proof whatever of failure. Hitherto, he understood, the mortar had not been tried with a full charge calculated to produce the greatest range of flight, and as yet no experiment had been made, by burying one of the shells to the depth to which it would probably penetrate when falling loaded at the end of its flight, and then exploding it while so buried, in order to see what would be the extent of the crater which the explosion would produce. He thought it exceedingly important that the weapon should be tried to the utmost, and
 1517
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I beg to give notice that I shall to-morrow, on the Motion that the House do adjourn (and, if necessary, I shall move the adjournment), make some observations on the state of our Foreign Relations, and ask the Government to state, as far as may be consistent with their public duty, what is the present position in which this country stands, either as mediator or as negotiator, in regard to the discussions now going on either at Paris or elsewhere in regard to the affairs of Italy and Europe in general.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for India
 1548
 LORD STANLEY  said, he thought there could be no doubt that the Act of 1853 permitted the appointment of a gentleman versed in financial matters, as well as of a lawyer, to the post of fourth ordinary member of Council, and he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that in the pre- sent state of things in India it was far more important to have there a, person competent to act in the former capacity than one whose assistance would be confined to the latter. It was, therefore, intended by the Government that a gentleman conversant with financial affairs should be sent out, provided they could satisfy themselves as to the competency of the individual, and provided also they could find any person properly qualified who was willing to go. That, he would say, was a matter of some difficulty, for probably any one who was fit at the present time to fill the office of Financial Councillor in India would be equally competent to hold the highest financial post in England. With regard to the second question of the right hon. Gentleman he proposed to move the Vote of Thanks to Lord Canning and the army in India, of which he had already
 1549
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that in consequence of the absence of his right hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General for Ireland upon public business it would not be convenient for him to bring forward that evening the Motion of which he had given notice, for leave to introduce certain Bills to consolidate and amend the statutes relating to the Criminal Law of England and Ireland. It was his intention, however, on Thursday next to call attention to the whole subject of the consolidation of the Statute Law, and to ask permission to bring in,  pro formâ
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, that as the House would have an opportunity of discussing the subject of these trials on a future occasion, he would, with the permission of the House, put the question of which he had given notice to the right hon. and gallant Gentleman, the Secretary for War;—namely, under what circumstances Mr. Cunningham, who was appointed last year to an ensigncy in the 13th Regiment of Light Infantry, obtained his appointment. Perhaps the House would permit him to state the circumstances, so far as they had appeared. On Thursday week there appeared in the police Reports in  The Times 1556
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he would confine himself strictly to the question put to him, as he thought the House would at once see the inconvenience of entering into statements upon a case which was about to undergo inquiry. The parties had not yet been committed, and it would be detrimental to the public service if he were to enter into explanations upon the subject. He had no objection, however, to state the grounds upon which a Commission without purchase was conferred on Mr. Cunningham. The hon. and gallant Gentleman had truly stated, that before a Commission was thus given, well-founded claims should be made out on the part of the individual seeking it. Now, Mr. Cunningham was the son of Colonel Cunningham, a very distinguished officer in the Bengal service; his grandfather and great-grandfather were also officers in the army, and served during the American war, and the testimonials upon which he received a Commission were signed by Sir S. Steel and Sir R. Vivian.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he regretted that the hon. Gentleman had not exactly pointed out the portions of the Report to which his question particularly referred, but he could state that immediately the Report was made it was taken into consideration at the Foreign Office, and had been the subject of unceasing attention ever since. The principal recommendations were in reference to an increase in the salaries of the Consular service, and the introduction of a system by which fees should be received by Consuls on behalf of the Government, instead of, as heretofore, forming a portion of their own remuneration. In every appointment that had been made since the Report, those recommendations had been uniformly carried out, the salaries in each case had been considered, and a scale of remuneration laid down which was considered to be just towards the Consuls, and more becoming their position than the old system. At the same time, in all those new appointments a stipulation had been made that the fees received by the Consuls should be paid to the Government. It would have been desirable that the system recommended by the Committee should have been more largely acted upon, but the changes he referred to had not been wholly confined to new appointments. There were between twenty and thirty other cases in which the salaries of Consuls bad been taken into consideration upon representation of their inadequacy, and increased allowances made by the Government. He must add, however, that the adoption of any such scale of re-
 1563
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, an increase of the salaries of the consular body was never contemplated by those who supported the Motion for the Committee of Inquiry. On the contrary, it was then thought that the salaries of many of them should be reduced. Besides, the competition for admission into this department of the public service was greater than with respect to any other; and he complained that private interest, and not efficiency, governed many of the appointments. He hoped the Government would pause before they made any increase in the salaries, especially as there had been no complaints from the consular body.
 SIR WALTER FARQUHAR  said, he was always under the impression that the consular body generally were very much dissatisfied with their salaries; and if the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams) had taken the pains to read the evidence given before the Committee, he would have seen that it fully bore out their complaint in that respect, and that it was shown that the cost of necessaries, lodging, and living abroad had increased 50 per cent in some places, and in others even more. It was that consideration which led the Committee to recommend an increase of salary, and he regretted that the hon. Member had sought to weaken that
 1564
 LORD STANLEY  said, he would take this opportunity of answering the various questions which had been addressed to him. The first related to the locality in which the Indian business in this country was to be carried on. He always listened with great respect to anything which fell from his hon. and learned Friend opposite (Sir E. Perry), but he thought that he rather exaggerated the importance of a change from the city to the West end, when he said that it would seriously influence the conduct of the Indian administration. No person was so much interested in this question as the Indian Minister for the time and his Parliamentary Secretary, to whom it was very inconvenient to be separated by about half an hour's journey from their colleagues and from that House. He had to consider this question in August last, and having found that all the political departments could not be accommodated in the building in Cannon-row, he thought, on a full consideration of the balance of inconvenience, that it was better to remove the whole department to Leadenhall Street, where it was now, than to have one part of the business carried on in Cannon Row and another in the city. The hon. and learned Gentleman had suggested that accommodation might have been found by occupying the houses in Manchester-buildings. No doubt that might have been done by, though probably not without, the authority of an Act of Parliament, but those premises would have required refitting from foundation to roof, at an expense which it would have been unwise to incur for a merely temporary purpose. It had been determined that a new India Office should be erected upon the site in the neighbourhood of Downing Street which the Government was about to acquire, and the delay which had occurred in the commencement of the works had arisen solely from the legitimate and natural desire of that House to have an estimate of the expense, and to see the designs both for this and the Foreign Office before they were acted upon. The elevations and general designs were now ready, the preparation of the working drawings would be proceeded with, and as soon as the House had pronounced as to the style to be adopted they would be prepared to proceed with the erection of the India Office. The expense would, of course, fall upon the Indian revenue, and therefore there would be no
 1567 1568
 MR. F. W. RUSSELL  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had shown that the only control which the House had over the contract was by stopping the Supplies after the contract had been completed. If the Government had put this contract up to public competition they would have had parties offering any port they thought best, instead of Galway alone. This was a larger question than the selection of Galway. Why was it concluded that Galway was the only good port for the purpose in view? It was the duty of the Government to suspend the completion of this contract till the new Parliament could take the whole question into consideration. There was no urgency whatever in the matter.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, that with reference to the question of the bon. Member for Chester (Mr. Clive) and with regard to which an explanation had been given by the right hon. Gentleman, he was sure that the House would cordially
 1591
 GENERAL PEEL  said, it was with extreme regret that he found it was out of his power to take any steps for the purpose of procuring the Victoria Cross for the families of the gallant men to whom the hon. Gentleman had referred. It was not customary to grant such a reward on behalf of men who had been killed in the service by which they would otherwise have become justly entitled to the distinction. It was true that the Victoria. Cross had been handed over to the families of the two officers who had been engaged in the same exploit; but the fact was, that although severely wounded, they had survived for some time, and as they had during that period been recommended by Sir A. Wilson, the commanding officer on the occasion, for the distinction, Her Majesty thought that every possible effect ought to be given to that recommendation. That was the sole ground of the difference made between the cases of the two commissioned and the two non-commissioned officers who had so nobly sacrificed themselves in that service. If those gallant soldiers had survived, however short a time, no doubt the same course "would have been pursued with respect to them. With regard to the grant of some special pension to the families of those men, he had to state that they had at the time been in the service of the East India Company, and it would, therefore, be impossible for him to recommend Her Majesty to take such a step. He had no hesitation, however, in adding that he would not have withheld the grant if it had been in his power to make it.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it was with unfeigned regret he saw any opposition to the passing of this Bill. The measure had twice received the sanction of the House of Lords after long and minute discussions. It contained thirty-four operative and effective clauses. With the exception of two of them, he believed that the provisions of the Bill would effect great and important improvements. He was hound, however, to say that there was much opposition to one of those clauses on the part of solicitors. Looking, however, to the time of the Session, and the state of the benches around, he did not think that the measure could be pressed further at present.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he had given notice of his intention to ask the Chief Commissioner of Works, whether the Government will have made up their minds by the meeting of the new Parliament (seeing that Berkeley House is now pulled down) as to making a carriage road by the side of Berkeley House, from Cock-spur Street and Charing Cross, into St. James's Park. The Board of Works had purchased Berkeley House, and were not only favourable to the plan he referred to, but were also willing to give twenty-five
 1561
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India whether, in consequence of the appointment of Mr. Peacock to the Chief Justiceship of Bengal, it is the intention of the Government to recommend that the vacancy thereby created in the Council of Calcutta should be filled up by a person competent, from
 1566
 LORD DUNKELLIN  said, he thought that the present Motion and others of a similar nature in opposition to the Galway line sprang from a desire to support moneyed and local interests against struggling energy. What was wanted was not that every line of steamers should start from Liverpool, but that the public should have the benefit of the advantage afforded by the geographical position of the nearest port to America. It had been generally admitted that it would be to the public advantage that a line to America should run through Ireland, and, when the whole of Ireland was open for the purpose, private energy and enterprise had fixed on Galway as the most convenient port. By the new contract with the North Western Railway Company, Galway was brought within I fifteen hours of London, and he doubted whether Cork could be brought within such easy reach of this metropolis. Even sup- posing Sir S. Cunard had a right to all the American traffic he (Lord Dunkellin) could not understand on what possible grounds that gentleman claimed anything at all for! going into the port of Cork, as it was as near for him to go by the south as by the north of Ireland. There had been at least sixty memorials to the Treasury from Chambers of Commerce, and from large and influential towns in favour of the Galway line, and he thought they were entitled to
 1571
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the question which the hon. Gentleman had put was not the same as that which appeared upon the paper. The question which the hon. Gentleman intended to ask was, "Whether the Government will have made up their minds by the meeting of the new Parliament," &c. To that question he (Lord John Manners), not possessing the gift of prophecy, would have found it difficult to give a satisfactory reply. The hon. Gentleman, however, had asked a different question — whether any steps would be taken to prevent the new Parliament from expressing an opinion upon the subject. He could only say that he proposed to take no such steps, and that even if he did it would be out of his power to prevent the new House of Commons from expressing any opinion which its Members might entertain.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that as the hon. Baronet had not given him notice of his intention to put these questions, he was not prepared to give him complete and satisfactory replies. Speaking generally, the hon. Baronet would find in the estimate for the Vote taken last year an explanation of the financial condition of the bridge. He had no doubt that in time a further sum would have to be asked for from Parliament for the purpose of finishing the works. The Bridge Estate not having been disposed of, it was impossible to say how much it would produce; but
 1546
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he wished to move that in the ease of the Westminster New Bridge Bill the examiner should have leave to sit and proceed forthwith.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I wish, Sir, to inquire of the right hon. Gentleman whether the question will be brought forward in such a form as will give any hon. Member an opportunity of expressing his opinion upon it.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman, no doubt, cannot at this moment pledge himself to any particular day upon which Parliament will be dissolved, because there might be business which may take a longer time than is at present calculated upon, although I believe that pretty generally hon. Members of this House can estimate that the business will not occupy us later than Monday week. But the right hon. Gentleman is perfectly able to answer the question of my right hon. Friend whether the dissolution will immediately follow the prorogation. There can be no difficulty about that. We have repeated precedents in which the Crown having thought fit to dissolve Parliament asked the assistance of the House of Commons, and that assistance has been readily given, as I am sure it has been now; but a dissolution has always followed, if not on the same day at latest upon the day after the prorogation. I cannot imagine what difficulty the right hon. Gentleman can experience in assuring the House that as soon as the Crown is able to prorogue Parliament Her Majesty will be advised to do so. My noble Friend is quite justified in commenting upon the phrase of introducing a Reform Bill in June or July. I believe that upon the 19th or the 20th of this month Parliament may be dissolved, and then the new House can meet about the end of May. The right hon. Gentleman the other day rather taunted my noble Friend and myself with a want of patriotism, for asking, as Sir Robert Peel asked me in 1841, that if the existing Parliament should be dissolved the new one should meet as soon as consti-
 1585
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The House will allow me a word of explanation. I did not speak of Parliament meeting at the end of June or the beginning of July; I talked of introducing a measure of great importance at that period. I could not suppose that a Reform Bill would be introduced on the very day that the new Parliament meets. I will say this, that with regard to the dissolution we lost a day this week—not from the fault of any person, but it was a loss which the Government endeavoured to prevent. I can only repeat that we have no intention whatever of delaying the dissolution; and I cannot, I confess, see how it could be at all to the advantage of the Government to delay the dissolution; neither would such a delay be conducive to the convenience of any of our friends. But I say again, I do
 1584
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The Estimate cannot be in the Votes of this year; but before the Government shall have paid one single shilling, the Estimate will be laid before Parliament. It must be recollected, that it was necessary to enter into this contract at once, because great preparations are requisite before it can be carried into effect; and a very considerable time must elapse before the money will be required. I repeat, however, that before a single shilling is advanced by the Government, the Estimate will be submitted to the House, and it will have the same opportunity which it has in the case of the Cunard Company of controlling the execution of the contract. If the House should not choose to vote the money, of course there will be an end to the matter. But the House will only have to do that with regard to this company which it does every year with regard to the Cunard Company; and if it disapproves of the manner in which the contract is carried out, it can put a stop to it by withholding the vote of money. I believe the Government have acted in this matter wisely, and for the public advantage. If, however, they have not acted wisely, nor for the public advantage, they have acted in conformity with precedent, and they have not taken a single step in which they were not justified by the course which has been repeatedly pursued by preceding Governments upon similar occasions. I trust, therefore, that the House will not think it necessary to interfere with the arrangement which the Government have made, and which, I believe, to be greatly for the public advantage.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Towards the end of the month.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, it will perhaps be more convenient that I should answer the question which has been put to me by my hon. Friend at once than that I should mix it up with those other subjects which have been brought under our notice this evening, and to which it will be my duty to allude before the Report of the Committee of Supply has been received. I am not quite sure whether I have succeeded in collecting exactly the precise nature of the inquiry which my hon. Friend has addressed to me, but I understood him to ask me whether, when I announced it to be the intention of Her Majesty's Government to withdraw the Bill which we introduced for the Amendment of the Representation of the People, I made a statement to the effect that it was not the intention of the Government under any circumstances to bring forward again a measure of what is termed Parliamentary Reform? [Mr. CAYLEY: Hear, hear.] Now, I certainly never intended to make, and my impression is that I never did make, any such statement. And although on the occasion in question I was desirous of introducing no subject which could lead to controversy, I nevertheless asserted the right of hon. Members who sit on this side of the House, to deal, as a political party, with that question of Parliamentary Reform, which it seemed to me some persons would maintain to be the peculiar privilege of another party. I asserted then that I considered we had a perfect right to deal with that or any other public question, but that, having fulfilled the pledge which we had given to the House and to the country
 1577
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER :—Sir, whatever information may have reached the right hon. Gentleman with respect to the subject of his observations I have only to inform him that such information rests on no foundation whatever, and I must beg to object to be called upon to answer inquiries which are founded on common rumour alone. What I told the House originally was this. I endeavoured to give the House some idea of what would be the course of public business, and I calculated, so far as we could then judge, that by using our best exertions we should be able to conclude the business of the country on the Monday or Tuesday of Passion week; and I then took occasion to inform the House that as soon as possible—certainly towards the end of the month—the dissolution would take place. I certainly do think it would be very objectionable to have the elections in Passion week. That has been represented to me very strongly by hon. Gen-
 1580 1581
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : That certainly is my wish. I
 1547
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I wish, Sir, to make a remark regarding the notice which has been given by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, that he would this day make some observations, and address certain inquiries to me respecting the present state of our Foreign Relations. I would earnestly request of the noble Lord that he would forbear to-day from making those observations and urging those inquiries. I can assure him that to do so on the present occasion would be inconvenient—and more than inconvenient to the public interest. What I propose to do is this — that on Monday or Tuesday, or, at all events early in the week, I will give notice of a day upon which I will make a statement with respect to the position in which this country is now placed in regard to Foreign Affairs and the negotiations that are going on. That will give to the noble Lord an opportunity of offering in a more satisfactory manner than he could to day those observations, which I am sure that the House will receive with great attention.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he could assure the noble Lord that no instructions had been given by Her Majesty's Government that on any trial Roman Catholics should be systematically excluded from the jury. He was not prepared to account for the circumstance to which the noble Lord alluded, because it was only that moment that by accident a letter on the subject, not very legibly written, had been placed in his hand. With respect to the question, however, which the noble Lord had placed on the notice paper, he could state most distinctly that no instructions had been given to the Crown officers to exclude Roman Catholics from juries in Ireland, nor would any conduct, prompted by the desire merely of excluding Roman Catholics, over meet with the approval of the Government. Indeed
 1551 "The setting aside of jurors is confided to the Crown solicitor; Sir M. Barrington, who is so well known, discharged his duty. His instructions were not to set aside on account of religion or politics, but only on personal grounds, when he was satisfied that the person objected to would not be likely to do justice, as between the Crown and the accused. The prisoner challenged twenty Protestants peremptorily. The Crown set aside sixteen, of whom six were Protestants. Mr. O'Connor, ('the gentleman referred to, he believed by the noble Lord') was set aside because he had been convicted and sentenced to fine and imprisonment for conspiracy, and Sir Matthew thought he would have failed in his duty if he had not set him aside. As to his being made a magistrate, the Chancellor knew nothing of him. He acts on the recommendation of the Lord Lieutenant of the county, who may not have known about the conviction, or may have thought it would not be of such consequence, as Sir M. Barrington was bound to consider it in discharging his duty to the Crown, in a case where the trial had already failed under such peculiar circumstances."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that the letter was an enclosure in a letter to the Attorney General for Ireland, and he could not state the name.
 MR. COWAN  said, he rose to bring under the consideration of the House the fact that Sergeant Carmichael and Corporal Burgess or Burgess Grierson, of the Bengal Sappers and Miners, sacrificed their own lives in the blowing in of the Cashmere Gate at Delhi, in September, 1857, in the same service when the heroic and lamented Lieutenant Salkeld fell. The blowing up of that gate was the point on which the whole of our successes in India rested. From the testimony of Colonel Baird Smith it appeared that it was Grier-son who completed the work of the demolition of the gate by taking the lighted match from the hand of Lieutenant Salkeld when he was shot down, Grierson, who at the time of his death was a. very young man, was the son of a constituent of his— a very respectable man, but who was at present in reduced circumstances; and he wished to ask the hon. and gallant General at the head of the War Office whether he did not think it fair and reasonable that the father of the man who had so gloriously lost his life in the service of his country, should possess some testimonial of his exploits. For this purpose he would suggest the Victoria Cross might be granted to him. He was afraid that the answer of the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Secretary at War would be that there was no precedent for such rewards; but if there was an appearance of a want of royal or national sympathy with such cases as these he thought it would have the effect of preventing others from enlisting. The claim that he had submitted to the gallant Gentleman had been for some pension to the father of Grierson, who was an old man and badly off. In answer to that, however, the right hon. and gallant Gentleman said that he had no funds. He had then applied to one of the members of the Indian Council, but though the hardship of the case was admitted, all that he got was a contribution of £10, which would not amount to more than an annuity of 15s. or 20 s. 1593
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he merely rose to add one word to what had been said by his right hon. Friend (Mr. H. A. Herbert). He had received an account of the trial at Tralee, and he could assure the House that he had the best possible information for stating that all the Roman Catholics who had been set aside by the officers of the Crown were, with one or two exceptions, gentlemen of substance, of social position, and of the highest respectability, and that they would have
 1553
 MR. CAYLEY : I wish to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer upon a matter of great interest, which I trust it may not be inconvenient or inopportune for him to answer, though perhaps I ought to have given him a more formal notice. An impression
 1576
 MR. SALISBURY  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to remarks said to have been made by Mr. Baron Bram-well at Bala and other Assize Towns in the North Wales Circuit. The case to which he referred was one in which an indictment for embezzling his employers' money was preferred against a man named David Williams. A true Bill was found against him, and the accused on being brought up pleaded "Not Guilty." The case was gone into, and nine witnesses were called against the prisoner, and several others were called to speak to his character, the witnesses being highly respectable persons in the county of Merioneth and other counties in North Wales. He (Mr. Salisbury) admitted that the evidence was very strong against the prisoner, but there were points in it to which, he thought, the Judge ought to have called the attention of the jury as being favourable to the accused. But Baron Bramwell did not do so. The jury, however, retired and returned into Court with a verdict of acquittal. Now, he knew it was a very delicate thing to complain of the conduct of a Judge; but, on the other hand, it was a very delicate thing on the part of a Judge to interfere with the due administration of justice in the country. The case having been tried, the following proceedings were reported to have taken place: —
 "The Clerk of the Court asked: Do you find the prisoner, David Williams, guilty or not guilty? —Foreman: Not guilty. (Great cheering, which was at once suppressed.) The Judge requested the officers of the court to bring any one before him whom they saw joining in the applause, and he would send him to prison. His Lordship then addressed the jury as follows:—Gentlemen,—You have said that you find the prisoner Not Guilty. Do you understand the case? Do you understand that it is your duty to say whether or not this man received his employers' moneys, and applied them to his own purposes? Do you say he is not guilty of so doing?—Foreman: Yes, Sir.—The Judge (emphatically): Then I am thankful it is your verdict, and not mine. Addressing Mr. Matthew, his Lordship said: Are you an Englishman, Sir?— Mr. Matthew: I am, my Lord.—Judge: And your firm is English, I suppose?—Mr. Matthew: Yes, my Lord. Judge: This should be a warning to an Englishmen not to invest their capital in Wales." Laughter Laughter 1558 "I believe one bill will be presented to you charging a person with an attempt to suborn perjury. Subornation of perjury.. is an offence the enormity of which is not so much felt here, I may say, as it ought to be… I am afraid it is at the bottom of more than one dishonest verdict which I have known to have been given, and for which it is impossible not to feel the deepest regret … I have been told that a jury found a grossly corrupt verdict because they wanted to screen a prisoner—a man holding some office in a Dissenting congregation. That is one of the most monstrous things in the world, and yet I am told it is true." 1559
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, that although the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had disclaimed any intention of blaming the Government for what they
 1587
 MR. BEAMISH  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, whether, Sir Samuel Cunard having offered, through a deputation who waited on the Admiralty and Treasury departments on Monday last, to convey the mails weekly between an Irish port and America for the sum of £500 the voyage out and home, it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to persevere in completing a contract for £300 for this service (fortnightly) between Galway and America? As an Irish Member, he felt grateful to the Government for sending the American mail through Ireland; but, in his opinion, it was not right that so extensive a contract, amounting to £78,000 a year, should have been given without any competition, or without any other persons but the Galway Steam Packet Company being informed that such a service was required to be performed. He might also state, that since he had given notice of his intention to ask this question, Sir S. Cunard had authorized him to say that this service could be executed for £250 a voyage, or one-twelfth of the sum which the Government had undertaken to pay to the Irish company.
 Mr. G. CLIVE  said, in that the right hon. Gentleman was mistaken.
 MR. CLIVE  said, he wished to say one word in explanation with respect to what the right hon. Gentleman had said about one of the magistrates of Hereford being a Conservative. Last year the body corporate sent to Lord Cranworth the names of six gentlemen, four of whom were Liberals and two Conservatives, and Lord Cranworth appointed one from each side, but the name of the Conservative gentleman who was appointed was not Thomas Evans.
 Mr. G. CLIVE  said, the right hon. Gentleman had stated that of the gentlemen in the commission of the peace at the time the six in question were appointed, one was a Conservative, and one alone. Would he mention the name of that gentleman?
 MR. G. CLIVE  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the recent appointment of Magistrates far the City of Hereford, and to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department on what information and at whose suggestion such appointments were made; also, whether he will object to the production of any correspondence which may have taken place on the subject. Without any previous communication with the civic authorities of the city of Hereford, an order had arrived there nominating six new magistrates, all of whom belonged to one political party. The circumstance had given rise to great dissatisfaction among many of the citizens. They had sent up a petition, which he had presented to the House, stating that though there was no want' of magistrates in Hereford, six had all at once been appointed by the Lord Chancellor without any communication with the municipal authorities, and that their appointment was due to the interference of some person or persons unknown. That petition was signed by the Mayor, four out of six aldermen, eleven members of the town council, and several magistrates and gentlemen of local standing. The petition went on to object to some of the persons who had been appointed to the magistracy. Two of them, it was said, were retail traders, and therefore not persons whom it was expedient to make magistrates. His own opinion was, that retail traders might often be as good magistrates as any gentlemen who sat on a county bench; but in this case the two persons in question were at this moment practising their respective trades, and could hardly be expected to have sufficient leisure for the proper and efficient discharge of magisterial functions. The population of Hereford in 1851 was about 12,000; it could not now be more than 15,000, if so many; and there were already eight magistrates for the city when the order in question arrived for the appointment of other six. It might be at the instance of
 1565
 MR. REPTON  said, he thought the Government had come to a proper determination in proposing to give the new line of communication a fair trial, and he hoped the House would not be led away from a fair consideration of this question by the hon. Member's (Mr. Monsell's) observations. He (Mr. Repton) was connected neither with Cork, Galway, nor Limerick, and his only wish was that the best course should be pursued in originating a system of communication between Ireland and America, a communication which was agreed on all hands ought to be opened. He thought that if the question was referred to a Committee of the new Parliament much valuable time would be lost without any counterbalancing advantage. The subject had been reported upon again and again, and there was now in the hands of the Government every possible information they could require. Her Majesty's Government had, he believed, conferred a great boon on the sister country by concluding the contract with the Galway Company.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, he heard with satisfaction the statement of the right hon. Gentleman that no instructions had been given by the Government to exclude Roman Catholics, as such, from juries on political trials. At the same time he could not but express his regret at the course which had been taken at the trial in question by the officers of the Crown. The gentleman whose name had been particularly referred to was made a magistrate on his recommendation, but the objection made to him did not at any rate apply to the other eight gentlemen, who were struck
 1552
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he felt it necessary to make a few observations with reference to that control which the House ought at all times to have over the expenditure of public money. His attention had been called incidentally to the subject under discussion when he formed one of a Commission appointed to inquire into the management of the Post Office. One of the recommendations made by that Commission was that the direction of the steam services should be transferred from the Post Office to the Admiralty, in order that the Admiralty might include the expenditure in respect of those services in their estimates, and that so the expenditure might be brought under the consideration of the House of Commons. He was totally unable to express an opinion upon the question whether Galway was or was not the best terminus for a new communication with America. There could be no doubt that the House would desire to afford the best communication that could be obtained between Ireland and America; but what he wanted particularly to press upon the House was that they ought to be extremely jealous is cases of this sort. He hoped that at the
 1574
 MR. LABOUCHERE : Will the Estimate be in the Votes of this year?
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, that as he would not be able to be present at the discussion if it were renewed on Monday, he wished to say a few words on this
 1554 employés 1555
 MR. HOPWOOD  begged to ask the Secretary to the Treasury for an explanation of the recent dismissal of a gentleman who had been employed for two years and a half in the Emigration Office, and had subsequently passed a satisfactory examination before the Civil Service Commissioners.
 MR. MAGUIRE  observed, that he had never said, and did not then intend to say one word against the Galway project; on the contrary, he wished Galway every success; but because he loved Galway much, it did not follow that he did not love the south of Ireland a little more. Sir S. Cunard asserted, on his own responsibility, as the head of a great firm, that the harbour of Cork was the best harbour in Ireland, that it was the one to which alone he would send his vessels, and that geographically speaking, with a mere difference of twenty-five miles, Cork was as near to New York as Galway was. He also stated that he knew that such were the capabilities of the harbour, that he could run his vessels in at any state of the tide—that he could place his vessels at the Admiralty stairs in any state of the tide—that there would be no outlay necessary to suit the harbour to his object, and that the communication between Cork Harbour and London could be accomplished within 16½ hours, or two hours within the time of the transit between London and Galway. By accepting Sir Samuel Cunard's proposition, the advantages offered by the other company every fortnight could be obtained every week. However valuable Galway harbour might be, a considerable time must elapse, and the expenditure of a large sum of public money must be incurred, before it could be rendered equal in advantages and importance to the harbour of Cork. There were sometimes as many as 500 ships of all sizes in Cork harbour; and it contained docks large enough for the refitting of the largest merchant steamers, and for the reception of ships of the size of the  Duke of Wellington
 MR. VANCE  said he believed this question bad been brought forward for no other purpose than to influence the Irish elections. He believed it was necessary to adopt the course taken by the Attorney General on certain occasions. The Whig Government adopted that course on the trial of Mr. Daniel O'Connell, when they excluded Roman Catholics. He was sure they did so from a sense of duty and to obtain a fair trial and not from a wish to prejudice his chance of an acquittal. If a Conservative Government adopted a similar course he believed it was for the same reason.
 MR. RICHARDSON  said, he had no interest in any one port over another, but any one who looked at the map of Ireland could see that Galway was the direct route to America. He must claim for Ireland the benefit of a direct communication with America. Two thirds of the letters from America were for Ireland, and why should they go to London before they were delivered at their place of destination? Ireland therefore ought to have a packet station of her own. Cork and Limerick grasping for the shadow might end in Galway losing the substance.
 MR. J. C. EWART  said, the contract ought to have been opened to public competition. From the course which had been pursued the steam proprietors of Liverpool, who had some of the finest boats at their command had not had an opportunity of competing for the postal communication with America.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, with reference to the magistrates of Hereford, he was glad to hear that the Lord Chancellor had adopted a different course to that which he had followed in other cases. In the borough which he (Mr. Dillwyn) represented, five gentlemen had been appointed magistrates without any communication with him or any one connected with the borough.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he was taken rather by surprise by the statement of the right hon. Gentleman. He knew nothing of what had occurred upon the trials at Belfast or Tralee, but he had received a letter, dated March 31, from Mr. John Rea, the solicitor to the defendants, which contradicted the statement made in the communication referred to by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Mr. Rea said:—
 "Our Riband case has been on all day, and will occupy to-morrow. I never hare witnessed a more flagrant attempt to pack a jury. The prisoners, being indicted for misdemeanour only, had no challenge, and yet the Crown Solicitor set aside, without assigning any cause, every Catholic who answered, with one exception, and that was only because he was mistaken for a Protestant, in consequence of his name (Henry Neeson), and his living not in Belfast, but in the country. A Presbyterian was struck off in error for a Catholic for the same cause, being called James M'Caldin. We are now being tried, therefore, by a jury of the Solicitor General's voters, and two supporters of Lord Hertford from Lisburn, the 'mistake' added. Really it is perfectly frightful. One of the Catholics struck off, Mr. W. Ross, is a millowner worth £50,000, and the others are all most respectable."
 MR. DAVISON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary to the Treasury whether any renewal of the subsisting Mail Contracts to the Royal Mail Steam Packet Company for the West Indian and Brazilian Mail Service has been granted or promised to that Company without advertising for competitive tenders; whether Her Majesty's Government has had under their consideration any complaints of colonists or passengers or other persons respecting the irregularities, inconvenience, or mismanagement of the said services; and whether any investigation as to the convenience or management of the present service is contemplated previously to the renewal of such contracts; and whether it is intended that such renewals shall be opened to competition?
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he desired to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, respecting the recommendations of the Consular Committee. In drawing up the Report of that Committee he had been greatly assisted by the hon. Gentleman who so ably filled the office of Under Secretary of State, and as even in those of last Session matters upon which they differed, the hon. Gentleman had the better of him (Mr. Monckton Milnes), he had every reason to believe that it was in conformity with the opinions of the Government. Unfortunately, however, all that had since been heard of the subject was rather in opposition to the recommendations of the Committee. He had regretted that the Report should have been made so early, as he did not think all the evidence that it was desirable to have, had been adduced,
 1562
 MR. SPOONER  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General whether it is his intention to bring before the House that evening his Motion relating to the Consolidation of the Criminal Laws?
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, the statement made by the hon. and learned Gentleman differed materially from the information received by the Government from what they believed to be perfectly good authority. The hon. and learned Gentleman was informed that the prisoners had no challenge, whereas the Government were informed that they had objected to twenty jurors. [An hon. MEMBER: That was at Belfast.] Well, he thought there could be no advantage in discussing this matter until they knew something more about the facts. The question had been put in the absence of a right hon. and learned Gentleman (the Attorney General for Ireland) who was able to speak on the subject with authority, and who would, he hoped, be in his place on Monday, when the matter might be discussed in a much more satisfactory manner than at present.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he rose to answer one or two questions which had been asked some time ago, and which the House had very likely forgotten, owing to the varied character of the discussion which had taken place since they had been put. The hon. Member for Chester (Mr. Salisbury) had called the attention of the House to some remarks said to have been made by Mr. Baron Bramwell at Bala, on the North Wales circuit, and, speaking as a private individual, had ex-
 1588 1589 1590
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT : Mr. Thomas Evans, an attorney (as we understood).
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, if there has been any ambiguity in the language of the Government with respect to the dissolution I have un doubt that we shall have it speedily cleared up, because there can be no difference of opinion as to the course which both duty and convenience dictate with regard to the time of that event. It is desirable upon every ground that the dissolution should take place at the earliest possible moment—which may be qualified on the present occasion, however, to the extent of a day or two, by the intervention of Passion week—and that the meeting of Parliament should also take place at as early a period as possible. I am quite certain, therefore, that that can never become a matter of argument. With respect to the other subject, which, owing to the accident of the discussion, has become mixed with the question of the dissolution, I would venture to say that the Chancellor of the Exchequer should not understand that any imputation is sought to be cast upon the Government with regard to the Galway contract. This matter of the packet service, is, after all, a young subject. It has been growing up of late years and it may be that during its progress the House has been more anxious to witness its growth than to maintain with strictness the exercise of its own constitutional control over the public expenditure. But upon this occasion an important contract with a new company happens to have come before the House when the contract; is as yet uncompleted. The speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, if rigidly
 1586
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he concluded, of course, that the contract would be submitted for the approval of Parliament. Indeed, he should be glad to know when the House would have an opportunity of discussing fully the conditions of the packet service, and the expediency of extending the engagements to which the country was already pledged.
 MR. COGAN  said, he thought that if the House was to enter into a revision of contracts, such a revision should not be confined to the Lever Line, but should embrace the Cunard line. He believed the contract with Sir S. Cunard had lately been extended without any competition whatever. In his opinion the Government deserved credit for their prompt and proper interference to assist this attempt to establish a Transatlantic communication between Ireland and America. On such an occasion he had hoped that no local jealousies would have been allowed to interfere, and he was surprised that other ports, where no effort had been made to establish a line of communication, should, like the dog in the manger, try to prevent Galway from enjoying the benefits to which it was fairly entitled.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that a Liverpool firm which had been running steamers between this country and America lately applied to the Government with regard to the conveyance of mails, and the answer they received was, that it was the practice of the Government in such cases to invite tenders by public advertisements, thereby affording to all parties an opportunity of competing. That reply, he contended, contained the enunciation of a sound principle. Why should that principle be departed from? If principles were thus to be disregarded, where would such conduct end? He thought the matter should be fully discussed, and he hoped the Government had not pledged themselves to the payment of the £78,000 a year. Many commercial considerations existed besides those relied upon as justifying the contract, all of which, however, ought to be fairly and fully discussed.
 MR. MONSELL  said, it was of great importance that the House should know whether this contract was to be made on the sole authority of the Admiralty or the Treasury, and whether the public were to know nothing about it until it was concluded, and they found themselves saddled with £78,000 a year for seven years. This course was proposed in the face of the declared opinion of a Commission over which Viscount Canning presided, and which recommended that in every instance the contracts for the postal service should be made by public competition. In November last the Treasury distinctly stated, in reply to an application from the Philadelphia Company, that that was the principle which governed them; but in this case they had entirely departed from that principle, and were concluding a contract without public competition, and without allowing the House to pronounce an opinion on the subject. As Parliament was on the eve of a dissolution, it would be impossible to appoint a Committee to investigate the matter during the present Session, and probably before the new Parliament assembled the contract would be completed, and the House would have no opportunity of expressing its approval or disapproval of the arrangement. He would not enter into any discussion of the merits of the rival ports, but it had certainly been declared, over and over again, by commissions, including many eminent naval men, that Galway was not the best port in Ireland for a packet station. He trusted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would tell the House that this question would not be determined without its being fairly submitted to Parliament. He was perfectly aware that the right hon. Gentleman had spoken, but a nod from him would suffice. He was sorry to see that the right hon. Gentleman's head remained perfectly stationary, and he presumed, therefore, that he could not give an assurance which would be so satisfactory. Everyone was agreed that such a communication as was proposed between Ireland and America should be adopted, but the question was whether it should be carried out in a fair manner by open competition, or by such a contract as the Government contemplated. He did not impute any motives; but he thought it un-fortunate that the Government should have the power — if they did posses it — of making these private arrangements, which might be turned to political advantage. An opening wag thus afforded to something
 1573
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, I am anxious to make a few observations with respect to a question of some importance as to the course to be pursued in reference to which it is, I think, extremely desirable that we should obtain some information from Her Majesty's Government. On Monday last the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer stated that he and his colleagues had advised Her Majesty to dissolve Parliament, and he accompanied that statement by an announcement to the effect, that it was the intention of the Government that the dissolution should take place at the earliest possible moment, and be asked for the assistance of the House in enabling him to carry out that intention. That assistance has been liberally accorded. Hon. Members in whose name notices stood upon the paper of the House waved their claims to press them, and we agreed to a Resolution in accordance with which Government Orders of the day are to have precedence of other business during the remainder of the Session, The consequence has been, that the
 1578 1579
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he would take that opportunity of asking what was the position of the building and finance of Westminster Bridge. Figures which he had seen seemed to show that there was some danger of an excess of expenditure over the estimate. The sum which had already been spent was, in round numbers, £138,000, and the estimate of what would be necessary to complete the works, £178,000, making a total of £316,000. He wished to know from the noble Lord whether those sums were correct, and how the deficiency was to be supplied. In 1833 the Bridge Estate was transferred to the Woods and Forests, and he was afraid that if not gone already it would be swallowed up in the erection of this bridge, and he was therefore anxious to learn how the noble Lord proposed to obtain money to finish the works. He also desired to be informed who was the architect, builder, contractor, and surveyor, because he had been told that one person filled all these situations.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  observed that he presumed that the silence of the Treasury bench proceeded from its inability in point of form to answer the question put by his right hon. Friend (Mr. Labouchere), but he trusted that when the report of Supply came up some Member of the Cabinet—in the absence of the First Lord of the Admiralty, with whom properly speaking the responsibility rested—would offer an explanation. For his part he should be unwilling to interfere in the rivalry between Galway and Cork, but the taxpayers of this country had a deep interest in this question. He doubted greatly whether additional packet communication was required between this country and America. Considering the lines of packets now running between the two countries, he questioned whether a new fortnightly communication was worth the
 1575
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that so far as he could trust his memory, after the great number of subjects, he was under the impression that the Motion they were debating was as to the adjournment of the House. His right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department had spoken, he would not say upon, but to, that Motion, and therefore could not speak again until it was disposed of. His right hon. Friend would, however, take an opportunity of replying to the question just put to him when answering a question which another hon. Member had given notice of his intention of putting on the House going into Supply. In answer to a question which stood in the name of the hon. and gallant Member for Tralee (Captain O'Connell), and which was as to when the Warrant would issue placing naval medical officers on the same footing as medical officers in the army, he (Sir John Pakington) was unable to state the precise day when the Warrant would issue. He could only repeat what he had before stated, that the matter was under his consideration, and that it was his intention substantially to comply with the requests made by the naval service.
 MR. ROLT  said, he must express a hope that this Bill would not be pressed at that stage of the Session, and in so thin a House. There were many clauses in it which required the gravest consideration, as they involved some difficult questions of law. There was one especially which affected materially the law of debtor and creditor, and which demanded the closest attention.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished, before his hon. and learned Friend rose, to state that the Bill seriously affected the interests of the Crown, and might occasion considerable difficulty and embarrassment to the revenue department. As the Bill came down from the Lords, any Amendment made therein would involve the necessity of its going back again to the Upper House. Under these circumstances he did not think that the Bill could be proceeded with in the present Session.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he would, in the first place, answer the question put by the hon. Member for Clitheroe (Mr. Hopwood), with respect to the dismissal of a gentleman from the Emigration Office. He would explain, at the outset, that the Commissioners of Emigration acted under the Colonial Office, and that no gentleman could properly be admitted into that department unless he received the certificate of the Civil Service Commissioners. The gentleman to whom the question related was an  employé 1569 1570
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said in reply, that before the late Government went out of office application was made to them on the part of the Royal Mail Steam-packet Company, to extend for two years the existing contract for the West Indian and Brazilian Mail Service, on the ground that the Company proposed to increase the accommodation afforded with respect to the service to Brazil and the River Plate. The application was granted, as he found from the Treasury Minute, in conformity with the practice always followed in relation to other mail companies. No alteration was made in the terms of the contract, it was only extended from 1862 to 1864. He was not aware that any complaints had reached the Treasury such as those to which the hon. and learned Member referred. Complaints, he was told, had reached the Admiralty, but he was ignorant of their nature.
 SIR BRSKINE PERRY  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for India what steps have been taken for removing the political establishment of the India Office to the neighbourhood of the other Public Offices of Government. Last Session he had been under the impression that a new India Office would be erected on the site immediately adjoining the Foreign Office, but it appeared from the discussion that had recently taken place upon this subject, that no steps had as yet been taken in the matter. It seemed quite clear that as the style of architecture to be adopted had not yet been fixed, three or four years must elapse before any new building was erected. The question was one, however, he would take occasion to observe,
 1560
 VISCOUNT CASTLEROSSE  asked if the right hon. Gentleman could give the name of the writer.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEROSSE  said, that he wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in the absence of the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland. Great excitement had been created in the county he represented in consequence of the conduct pursued by the officers of the Crown on the trial of Daniel Sullivan, who was charged with being a member of a secret and illegal society called the Phoenix, which resulted in the transportation of that person to ten years' penal servitude. He need not say that no man could be more anxious for the suppression of that society than he was, but the conduct of those who acted for the Crown deprived the verdict which had been obtained of all moral weight, because not a single Roman Catholic had been allowed to act on that jury. Eleven persons of the Roman Catholic religion had been called, and answered to their names, but
 1550
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Of course, Sir, it is impossible for me to refuse to comply with the request of the right hon. Gentleman. I can assure him my only object is that the country should know, before Parliament is dissolved, what is the position in which we stand in regard to this matter. I have no doubt that the statement to be made by the right hon. Gentleman will completely answer the inquiries I proposed to make; and if it does not, an opportunity will then be given to myself an other Members to express their opinions.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Towards the end of the month. My right hon. Friend urged that in accordance with the declaration of the Government, the dissolution should take place as soon as possible; and he has informed us, that on all ordinary occasions the writs are issued the day after the prorogation. The dissolution can take place the day after the pro-
 1583
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I merely wish to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to the answer he has given to the question of my right hon. Friend as to the period of dissolution. That answer was anything but satisfactory. The right hon. Gentleman appears to intend that the dissolution should not take place until the end of the month.
 LORD STANLEY  replied that no restriction at present existed upon the importation of Gold into British India; but Gold in India was not a legal tender. The House was aware that the question whether Gold should be made a legal tender or not in India was one of considerable difficulty and complication; and he could not say that it was at present the intention of the Indian Government to make any change in that respect.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, he thought his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General could hardly have seen the provisions of this Bill. It was true that in one case it was discovered that a number of persons had conspired to procure excursion tickets at Brighton from persons who had gone down with them from London, for the purpose of selling them to others; but the case having been distinctly proved, the parties were very properly convicted and punished. If this Bill passed, however, a person who had innocently enough given his child, or relative, or servant, an excursion ticket would be liable to be seized and taken before a magistrate, and his name, probably, placarded all over the country, in the same manner as the names of parties who smoked in the railway carriages were. He certainly thought it would be advisable under the circumstances to withdraw the measure.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that he thought the history of this Bill was not clearly understood. What had taken place was this:—Several lines of railway had year after year given the public greater facilities for travelling, in the shape of return and excursion tickets, and it was very evident that they must discontinue that kind of accommodation if it became a source of loss to them from the manner in which parties dealt with the tickets. Under these circumstances, one or two railway companies who came to Parliament this year inserted clauses in their Bills for the purpose of checking the improper use of these tickets; but it was objected by the noble Lord who had charge of such Bills in "another place," that as the matter was one which concerned the public generally it ought to form the subject of a general measure, and accordingly this Bill was introduced in the House of Lords. He agreed with the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets that it was impossible on any sound principle to allow any power of the
 1615
 LORD LOVAINE  said, he must agree that the terms of the Act were certainly very large, but it must be remembered the provisions by which the railway companies
 1614
 LORD LOVAINE  said, the reason why the Bill had been introduced was on account of the frequent occurrence of the frauds it was intended to check, and he could not help remarking that a person accused of this offence would be in a similar position to any other person who was accused of an offence; it would be open to him to prove his innocence before a magistrate. As, however, it was certainly understood that no measures would be proceeded with except such as were of a pressing character, he thought it was inexpedient for him, under the circumstances, to proceed any further with this Bill. He would therefore consent to the right hon. Gentleman leaving the chair.
 MR. AYRTON  withdrew his Amendment.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that in the Act referred to the offences dealt with were offences committed on the line of railway; but in the present instance the offence might be committed anywhere, because a railway ticket could he given away in any locality. As this was a Bill which had come down from the other House of Parliament he wished to treat it with every respect, but under the circumstances he felt he should be justified in asking the Chairman to report progress, in order to enable the Government to consider whether it would not be advisable to withdraw it.
 MR. AYRTON  said, railway tickets were issued generally to bearer, and not to any particular person, and, consequently, there could be no identity of any person. The railways were left free. They were not bonnd to do anything, or give notice of anything. He hoped the noble Lord who had charge of the Bill would review the clauses of it from beginning to the end.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he did not know whether the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary had been called to the language of this clause. In his opinion the offences to which it referred were defined in very vague and general terms, and every person who entered a railway train with a return ticket would be liable at any period of his journey, under the loose wording, to be apprehended and imprisoned by officers of railway companies. He would move as an Amendment to the clause that any railway company should issue any ticket for the purpose of being used by any person named thereon, with the words "not transferable," and that any other person who should use such ticket, or should sell or transfer it for the purpose of being used, or should alter the name thereon, should be guilty of the offence. It would be most improper to clothe a railway company with so large a power as was proposed, and allow their servants to seize any poor person travelling on the line and lock him up as they pleased, especially when it was remembered that a person thus treated would have no redress, unless he could show that the company had no reasonable ground for seizing him.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I must say, in explanation, that the right hon. Gentleman is labouring under a misconception in supposing that there is any wish on the part of the Government for the dissolution not to take place as soon as possible. As far as I can form an opinion from the accounts which reach us as to the results of the coming dissolution, I see no cause for that rabid heat which animates the right hon. Gentleman. ["Oh, oh?"] I think it was a proper observation. I must decline doing that which no person in my position has been called on to do—to fix the very day on which the dissolution should take place; but it will take place as soon as seems proper after the prorogation, and probably, as we are at present advised, in the course of Passion Week. No one in my position has been called on to name the day in such a case, and I think no person holding my position ought to take upon himself the responsibility of mentioning the precise day. There is no wish, however, on the part of the Government to delay the dissolution beyond the times which on the whole they recognize as a proper interval after the prorogation.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I propose to make a statement respecting the position of Foreign Affairs on Friday, as I think it will be most convenient that that day should be fixed for the discussion. With respect to the dissolution, and that "considerable period" which the noble Lord seems to apprehend that I said should take place, I beg to say
 1610
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India whether there is at present any restriction on the importation of Gold into British India, and whether the tender of Gold is lawful in payment of debt in that country; and further, if these restrictions exist, whether it is the intention of the Indian Government that they should continue.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he objected both to the power and the penalty created by this clause. Was the principle to be carried further? Were gentlemen to be made responsible who gave away the tickets on coming out of the Opera? The proper course to deal with persons offending in this way was to compel them to pay full fare, or in default to hand them over to a constable. He was surprised that a measure so lax in its provisions should ever have passed "another place."
 ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he thought it was the duty of the House to protect railway companies from being defrauded. At the same time a Bill of this kind ought not to be forced through the House in such baste. The Bill was so closely worded that even in the interest of the companies themselves the noble Lord would do well not to persevere with it. In his opinion some means should be provided for dealing with cases summarily, so that persons should not be locked up all night.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, the explanation of the hon. and learned Gentleman appeared to him to render it desirable that the Bill should not pass into law this Session. For any accommodation given by the railway companies to the public they largely consulted their own interests. By this Bill, however, if a person picked the pocket of another of an excursion ticket, the original holder, who was entirely innocent, would be liable to punishment. This was certainly not consulting the interest of the public. He thought the Bill ought not be allowed to go a step further.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he would appeal to the Government whether it was necessary that the Bill should pass at all, it haying been understood that only measures of an urgent nature should be pressed.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  was of opinion that if the offences against which it was meant to provide were not of common occurrence, it was better that the risk of their being committed should be allowed to continue than that it should be sought to prevent them in the manner proposed. The case of theatres, which had been adverted to by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, he did not think at all analogous to that of railway companies, and he was informed that it was a constant practice for persons to take return tickets to Brighton and there sell them at a cheap rate, thereby defrauding the company to a considerable extent. If that were so, then Parliament was bound to make some provision against such frauds being committed. While these were his views on the subject, however, he could not regard the Bill under discussion as having been drawn up in a satisfactory manner, inasmuch as he concurred with his right hon. Friend the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) that un-
 1617
 MR. HENLEY  said, the clause went further even than the hon. Member for Evesham (Sir Henry Willoughby) supposed. It empowered any railway servant or constable, or anybody else, to apprehend anybody charged with this offence at any time or in any place. Surely no one but a person connected with a railway could have drawn such a clause. Ordinarily, power was only given to seize anybody actually committing such offences, but railway companies under this clause might send a constable, fetch anybody out of this House, and lock him up as long as was convenient. There was certainly nothing in the Statute-book which could at all come near it. He trusted that the Bill would be amended in that respect, at all events.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, that undoubtedly the words of the Act were very wide, but the simple fact was that the offence of selling railway tickets had recently been one of continual recurrence, and it had been thought necessary that some precautions should be taken to protect the railway companies. At the same time it was very desirable they should not go beyond what the justice of the case demanded. Perhaps the best course would be for the hon. Member to give notice of and print his Amendments. If that were done, the Government would consent to postpone the Committee until to-morrow, in order to consider the substitution of the words proposed.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he wished to state with reference to the clause alluded to by the hon. Member, that during the last twelve months institutions called Penny Savings' Banks had been very generally adopted, but as the law now stood such institutions could not invest their funds beyond the limit of £200 in ordinary Savings' Banks. The Government had, however, proposed such alterations in the existing law as would place the Penny Savings' Banks in this respect upon the same footing with Friendly Societies and other similar institutions. He was informed that the clause was much required and had inserted it under the belief that no objection was felt to it.
 MR. BOWYER  said, that as this was a Bill referring to the Navy, he hoped he should be in order in calling attention to the subject which he wished to bring before the House, relating to Greenwich Hospital. It appeared from the Report on the Manning of the Navy, that there were now a great number of vacancies in that establishment—no less than 960—which was sufficient to show that it was not popular with the navy, and that it did not give the satisfaction desirable to those for whom it was intended. He would not enter into matters of detail, but he wished to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty what measures the Government were prepared to take to place that noble establishment, which ought to be to them a subject of pride, on a better footing.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I rise in consequence of the enigmatical answer of the right hon. Gentleman. For the convenience of hon. Members on both sides of the House, I must ask the right hon. Gentleman to be more explicit, and to state whether, assuming that the prorogation should take place on the Tuesday, it is the intention of the Government to advise that the dissolution should take place before Good Friday, to which day, no doubt, the right hon. Gentleman's allusion to decorum has reference. No person of course could wish the dissolution to take place on Good Friday, but I would wish to know whether there is any reason why it should not take place before that day, say on Wednesday or Thursday.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to ask whether this was merely a continuance Bill. A most important clause relating to savings' banks had been inserted in a continuance Bill a day or two before.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, there appeared to be a power given, not only to the officials and servants of a railway company, but to all other persons, "to seize, apprehend, and detain." That was a very extensive and extraordinary power, and he trusted the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General would consider the point with a view to its omission.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, as the hon. and learned Gentleman had given no notice of his question, he could only give him a general answer. The report to which he had alluded contained a great deal of matter, and undoubtedly the representations with reference to Greenwich Hospital were not the least important points to which it referred. It was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to inquire into the
 1612
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, this was a more continuance Bill.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Perhaps, Sir, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer will allow me to ask him on this occasion whether he has yet made up his mind as to the day on which he proposes to make a statement as to the position of Foreign Affairs. He promised that either to day or to-morrow he would mention the precise time when he should be ready to do so. I may, perhaps, also take the liberty of asking if the Government have seen their way more clearly as to the precise time at which the dissolution of Parliament will take place, and whether prorogation and the dissolution will take place on the same day, or whether the dissolution will take place the day after the prorogation, and if not, whether a considerable interval, and what interval, will be suffered to elapse between the prorogation and the dissolution?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, it was no doubt extremely desirable that the frauds complained of should, as far as possible, be prevented, and the offenders punished. He could not, however, help thinking that great difficulty would be experienced in proceeding in the matter as was proposed. Two or three hundred persons, for instance, might take return tickets to Brighton or any other place on the Saturday. James Thompson, or any other person, might re-
 1616
 ADMIRAL DUNCOMBE  said, that as he had been alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, he felt called upon to trespass for a few moments on the attention of the House. It was perfectly true, as had been stated by his right hon. Friend (Sir John Pakington), that on the present Government succeeding to office, he did him the honour—if honour he might call it—of offering him a seat at the Board of Admiralty. He said, "honour if he might so call it," because whether intentionally or otherwise, the offer was conveyed under circumstances which totally precluded him from accepting it. He held that it was the duty of every man in either the naval or military professions to give his services to his country whenever he could do so with honour; and he would have accepted the seat offered to him at the Board
 1640
 COLONEL KNOX  said, he rose not to prolong this hustings discussion, but to confirm every word that had fallen from his noble Friend (Lord C. Hamilton), with regard to Captain Macilwain, notwithstanding the denial which had been given upon hearsay by the hon. Member who had just addressed the House. Captain Macilwain was a. friend of his own, and had told him precisely what had been stated by the noble Lord at the United Service Club, that he was not the least discontented with
 1650
 LORD STANLEY  said, that the Report referred to by the hon. and gallant General had been somewhat delayed, but it would be laid upon the table in the course of the Session, and that the hon. and gallant Member was right in supposing that under the present circumstances it was not the intention of the Government to send out any more artillery.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to ask if the Appropriation Bill contained a clause stating the deviation of the sum expended from those voted in the House?
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a Bill to cause the votes of the Parliamentary electors of Great Britain and Ireland to be taken by way of ballot. The first thing, perhaps, that would strike the House might be, that the present was not a very opportune moment for bringing it forward. The question, however, had been started on a previous night, and a partial division taken, but no arguments had been used, nor would they have been listened to at such a moment. And yet the present appeared to him to be an extremely proper time for bringing the question before the House, or rather, he should say, the country, which was so soon to be
 1653 The Times 1654 The Times. 1655 The Times The Times Tempest, "I am dealing with the Englishman of December, 1858. In the year 1960, for all I know, 'progress' may have so cleansed the Mr. Bulls of every breed that, whether stalled in a palace or a hovel, they will be found so politically pure as to scorn to influence or be influenced. When I regard the position of a cottage labourer with a vote, to be given by the ballot, I can only look upon him with the truest pity. As it is, poor Hodge has difficult steerage-way through the stream of
 1656 1657 The Times, in limine, 1658 The Times 1659 1660
 MR. H. BERKELEY  replied: He had been astonished, he said, by the speeches of the two leaders of the Liberal party. That party had for some time been looking in vain for a little unanimity on the part of the noble Lords, but now they had it with a vengeance. The noble Lords, so long at variance, now took their stand side by side on the ballot-box, like the two Kings of Brentford smelling at one rose. It was, perhaps, a happy thing for the party that their two great leaders were found to agree upon any one subject, but he was sorry to say that while they agreed between themselves they disagreed from the great mass of their followers upon a vital and important question. The speeches of the noble Lords contained more flagrant
 1684 1685
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, that the hon. Member for Dovor, in referring to Captain Macilwain, had charged the First Lord of the Admiralty with having forced that gentleman from Dovor, and the state-
 1648
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, my hon. and learned Friend has entered so deeply into the arguments which have been from
 1669 1670 1671 cestuis qui trustent 1672 1673 1674
 LORD LOVAINE  explained that the law was at present in an unsatisfactory state as to the rights of shipowners. The object of the Bill was to pass a general Act which should give all the powers at present conferred by local Acts, without superseding the latter. It was not intended to proceed further than printing the Bill during the present Session.
 MR. A. MILLS  said, he had listened with the greater satisfaction to the very able speech of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, since it came from a leader a large number of whose followers were supposed to entertain views upon this question which differed from his own. He had also listened with satisfaction to the language which had been employed upon that occasion by the noble Lord the Member for London, because the paragraph in the noble Lord's address to the electors of the City which related to the Ballot had created in his (Mr. A. Mills's) mind considerable doubt as to the course which he meant to pursue upon that subject. That (doubt had, however, been entirely removed
 1682 The Times
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I hope the House will not allow those personal discussions, always amusing as they are, to divert their attention from a most important principle in our Parliamentary constitution. Ought the Board of Admiralty to be professionally represented in this House, or ought it not? For my own part, I think it is due to the honour and the interests of Parliament, and I am sure also of the Executive Government, from whatever party it may be formed, that the Board of Admiralty should be professionally represented in this House. Such has been my opinion during a long period of years, and I can speak from the experience I have had during the existence of the present Government of the extreme inconvenience we have felt, notwithstanding all the assiduity and ability of my right hon. Friend, whenever questions of a nature which are continually on the increase in this country, relating to the administration or organization of the navy, are brought before the House. There are among us many hon. and gallant Members eminent for professional ability, who are connected with the naval service, and the acts of the Government are open, and very properly open, to their criticisms, urged with all the knowledge and force acquired by professional experience, while
 1644 1645 1646 â fortiori
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The hon. Gentleman must admit, however, that there is some foundation for the statement I have just made, which is more than can be said for some of the statements that have been made on this occasion. I will not at all venture to predict what may be the result of the coming contest to the hon. Gentleman the present Member for Dovor. All I can say is that that if Sir Henry Leeke represent Dovor in the next Parliament, and the hon. Gentleman the present Member do not, I sincerely hope the hon. Gentleman will find a seat elsewhere.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he had presented a large number of petitions in favour of this Bill, but at the same time he did not intend to press it during the present Session. He merely wished to say with reference to the many attacks which had been made on the Bill in the papers and at public meetings, to the effect that it was an aggression on the Church of England, that, in point of fact, it was the Church which had, in the first instance, assumed the aggressive towards the Dissenters. The action of the latter was merely defensive, and as it was understood that the aggressive action of the Church was to be persisted in, it was necessary that some legislative measure should be interposed to prevent it.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : The right hon. Gentleman will allow me to correct him. I was asked to appear there, but I refused.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Sir, considering that the right hon. Baronet the First Lord has shown such laudable assiduity to deprive me of my seat for Dovor, I think I may be allowed to address to the House a few observations. I must say in the explanation he has made, the right hon. Baronet has shown—to use the words of the gallant Admiral who spoke last—more zeal than prudence in meddling with election matters at this period. Now, this question resolves itself into two considerations. There is first the private consideration as affecting the attack upon Captain Carnegie by the right hon. Gentleman, and there is the public consideration of how long the Board of Admiralty is to remain as it is at present constituted. As to the personal attack that has been made upon
 1641
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Captain Macilwain never applied for his retirement or his promotion. I have his letters upon which I state the fact. I remonstrated with the right hon. Gentleman. Has he forgotten that? But the right hon. Gentleman has a singularly short memory at this period of election. So much for Captain Carnegie, who no doubt will settle his difference with the right hon. Gentleman as to who is most to be credited upon this matter. I now come to the more serious point—to these revelations, now made for the first time in Parliament by a First Lord of the Admiralty, as to the political jobbing that is going' on at the Admiralty. I say, after the disclosures that have been made by the First Lord, it is impossible that any future Parliament can allow the Board of Admiralty to remain
 1642 1643 laughter
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he hardly knew whether the hon. Gentlemen who had introduced and seconded this Motion seriously intended that there should be much discussion on the ballot at that period of the Session, when the attendance of hon. Members was so small. In fact, he should rather suppose that the two speeches just delivered, as well as those which might be delivered during this debate, might be regarded as dropped speeches, which should have been made upon the Motion of the hon. Member for Bodmin. On that occasion, greatly to the surprise of the Government, some of those who had been the most strenuous advocates for vote by ballot were decidedly averse to a discussion of it. Of course the Government know very well what was intended, and, speaking with reference to that occasion, he could only say that the Government had no such intention as the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Berkeley) had attributed to them. The Government had no intention of voting contrarily to the whole current of their principles, or of giving a vote upon the question in an indirect manner. The hon. Gentleman's speech of that evening very much resembled his former addresses on the ballot. It consisted of a number of squibs and crackers rather than of serious arguments. However, he did not intend to speak of his arguments, such as they were, in a disparaging tone, for he could not offer to the House anything so entertaining as the hon. Gentleman's speech. The hon. Gentleman appeared to have addressed many of his observations to two distinguished Members of the House—namely, the noble Lord the Member for London (Lord John Russell) and the right hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle (Sir James Graham). Those two distinguished Members were the last instances of individuals who had given their constituents some reason to suppose that they were not quite insensible to the arguments in favour of the ballot. The noble Lord the Member for London had pointedly intimated that he was of opinion that something might be gained by a more mature
 1663 1664
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he did not wish to have anything to do with the private arrangements within the walls of the Admiralty, but as they were on the eve of a general election, he wished to say a few words on the subject. In the first place he should like to know what the people of England would think of the conversation that had just taken place. He had always thought that the House of Commons was instituted for the purpose of securing the representation of the people, but they had been deliberately told by the First Lord that night that it was necessary that the Board of Admiralty should be represented there, that there were certain boroughs in the pockets of the Admiralty for that purpose, and that it was necessary to have naval officers in the House to assist the First Lord, who was a civilian. But surely it would be a more common sense arrangement to put a naval officer at the head of the Admiralty at once. For what were the naval officers wanted here? To instruct the right hon. Gentleman in the duties of his office. His (Mr. Duncombe's) advice was, that if these naval officers were required in the House to guide the Minister, they should sit there  ex officio.
 ADMIRAL DUNCOMBE  observed, that what the right hon. Gentleman had just stated was perfectly correct; but from that time to this the right hon. Gentleman had never offered him any explanation. He attributed it to the right hon. Gentleman's ignorance on naval matters and of the feelings of naval men, that he had made the offer as he had done, and it was that conviction which had prevented him from making any complaint on the subject.
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he could not allow the observations of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton with respect to the late division to pass without a word of
 1683 "With this conviction I am desirous of completing the machinery of the constitution by two measures which will invest the people with a power which was once their birthright, and with a security which I hope their children will inherit. These measures are triennial Parliaments and election by ballot; and unless these measures be conceded I cannot comprehend how the conduct of the Government can ever be in harmony with the feeling of the people."
 MR. MONSELL  said, he wished to put a question to the Secretary to the Treasury with reference to a sum of money which the county of Limerick has illegally been compelled to pay on account of its extra Police Force. He wished to know whether it is intended to take a Vote for the purpose of repaying it to the county?
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  rose and said, I can assure the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Admiralty that I should not have put on the notice paper the question with which I mean to conclude, without affording him a full opportunity of making any statement with respect to it which he may desire. With this view I had proposed to move the adjournment of the House, but feeling that that is always an inconvenient course to adopt—except, indeed, in cases of great importance like the present—I was glad to find that an opportunity was afforded of bringing forward this subject on the Motion now before the House. It will be in the recollection of many Gentlemen who were Members of the House in 1853 that I then felt it my duty to move for a Committee for the purpose of inquiring into the conduct of the Admiralty
 1627 1628 1629 1630 and laughter. 1631 1632
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he had intended to conclude with a Motion, so as to allow the right hon. Baronet to make any statement which he might think proper to the House; but on consulting with Mr. Speaker he found that it would be better to bring forward the subject on the Motion for the Second Reading of the Consolidated Fund Bill, which was the fourth Order of the Day, and would come on in the course of a few minutes.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  continued to observe, that he did not join in the opinion that because Sir Henry Leeke had been put on the retired list, he ought not to have been removed from it; for it was the unanimous opinion of the officers of the Royal Navy that Sir Henry Leeke's services in the Persian Gulf, in the service of the East India Company, should have been taken into account, and prevented his being placed on the retired list. It was, however, quite another question whether Sir Henry Leeke was the man to call to the Admiralty Board. He regretted much that these jobbings had taken place at the Admiralty at a time when war was impending, and that such a man as Admiral Dundas should have been so pressed to contest a borough that he felt compelled to tender his resignation. If the First Lord of the Admiralty should continue to hold his present office after the general election—which was not at all likely—he (Sir Charles Napier) trusted that what had now occurred would be a lesson to him. The fact was, an entire change ought to be made in the constitution of the Board.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, he also must express his astonishment at the manner in which the First Lord of the Admiralty had spoken of Captain Carnegie. Further, he wished to know whether Admiral Martin had left the Admiralty, and his reason for so doing.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  was understood to inquire when the report on the dockyards, to which reference had been made some evenings since, would be placed on the table. He also called attention to the large number of troops in India, and asked if it was in contemplation to send out any addition to the artillery there?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the real question was, whether the First Lord of the Admiralty was acting in accordance with his duty in placing one, two, or three seats before the Naval Lords, and insisting upon their sitting for the one or the other of them. But his reason for rising was, to say a word or two for the gallant officer to whom allusion had been made, He had known Captain Carnegie from the time that he first entered the naval service; he was also intimately acquainted with his family; and he believed him as incapable of the breach of an honourable engagement into which he had entered as the right hon.
 1647
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  asked if the Act was drawn in the usual form?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he would remind the gallant Admiral that he had already stated that he was not at liberty to state the personal grounds which induced Admiral Martin to retire from the Admiralty.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I wish to correct the hon. Gentleman. Whatever be his authority it is not true that I ever forced Captain Macilwain to retire. It is utterly untrue.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he hoped the House would allow him to make an explanation on a matter which was personal to himself—he alluded to what had fallen from the gallant Admiral the Member for the East Riding (Admiral Duncombe). It was true that he (Sir John Pakington) had offered the gallant Admiral a seat at the Board of Admiralty, and he was never more astonished than when he heard this evening that he had made that offer in terms that rendered it impossible for the gallant Admiral to accept it. He (Sir John Pakington) could only say that he had
 1651
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he rose to request the right hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone, when he asked the question of which he had given notice respecting Captain Carnegie and the Board of Admiralty, to conclude his remarks with a Motion, so that other Members might have an opportunity of addressing the House if so disposed, and he (Sir John Pakington) might not be limited to a categorical answer.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I must beg, in the first place, to express very great doubt whether such questions as those which the right hon. Baronet has just addressed to me are questions which in strict propriety ought to be put in this House. I think the terms in which the right hon. Gentleman has shaped his questions show that he himself entertains some doubt on this point, for, according to the phraselogy of his notice he asks whether I "have any objection" to answer the questions. We all know that in the formation and conduct of Government communications must of necessity take place between Her Majesty's Government and individuals which are perfectly fair and honourable in themselves, but which are not intended to be, and which ought not to be, the subject of public questions and discussions in this House. Having thus guarded myself against acquiescing in the propriety of such questions, I beg distinctly to say that so far as I am concerned in this case, I not only have no objection to answer the questions of the right hon. Baronet, but I am very glad that he has afforded me the present opportunity of answering them. Now, Sir, before proceeding to give a distinct answer to the particular inquiry which has been made, I think it right to remind the House of the fact, that for a very long period of time successive Administrations have felt it to be, not their interest—it rests upon higher grounds—but their duty that some of the naval members of the board of Ad-
 1633 1634 1635 1636 1637 1638 in transitu 1639
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that in seconding the Motion, he must complain of the course taken by the hon. Member for Bodmin (Mr. Wyld) in bringing forward this subject of the ballot on the night of the division on the Government Reform Bill, which he considered unfair to the hon. Member for Bristol, and had therefore followed that hon. Member out of the House to avoid voting. He was glad to hear the Chancellor of the Exchequer, on a late occasion, while recommending the adoption of voting papers, say that all parties were agreed that some means must be devised for doing away with the corrupt practices that took place at elections; and he hoped, that as the object of this Bill was to prevent such practices, no objection would be offered to its being brought in and laid before the House and the country. In the rural districts, in which he passed the greater part of his life, he could assure the House that intimidation on the part of the landowners was as rife as ever. He believed that if secret voting were established, and every man could vote accord-
 1661 "I hope in a few days to fix the time for coming to Maidstone to receive the rent. I hope you are a Conservative, as I am, and that you will give your vote for Sir W. Riddell. It is my opinion that landlord and tenant should always vote on the same side, and if we proceed to arrange for a new lease of the farm that will be a stipulation." 1662
 SIR RICHARD BETHELL :Sir, during the last eight years I have on many occasions been an attentive listener to the discussions which have taken place here upon this important subject, but never myself have ventured to address the House in reference to it; nor would I now attempt to do so if my attention had not been directed to it among various other topics contained in the addresses which hon. Gentlemen are now placing before their constituents. In some of those addresses there are, in my humble apprehension, several great errors and fallacies with respect to secret voting. Some of these fallacies have noble authors; but, in all the addresses which have been published, there is no
 1665 Edward Henry pleno comitatu, 1666 1667 cestuis qui trustent, corona cestuis qui trustent. cestuis qui trustent 1668
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he had to reply to both questions in the affirmative.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he did not think the opinion of the Law Officers went to the extent that any particular sum had been illegally levied. The question arose with reference to the charge for the constabulary. Under the Act of 1846 the charge of the ordinary establishment was borne by the Consolidated Fund; but if an extra force was required by the local magistracy, the charge was divided between the Consolidated Fund and the county rate. The magistrates contended that when the entire force was not up to the maximum, the Consolidated Fund ought to bear a larger proportion of the extra charge. The Law Officers of the Crown were of opinion that it ought to be so in future. The Treasury did not think the county had any equitable claim to be refunded anything already paid, and therefore did not intend to propose any Vote for that purpose.
 SIR ERSKINE PERRY  said, he must be permitted to state in justice to the hon. Member for Dovor, that the contradiction which the noble Lord had just given, although apparently a flat contradiction, was not so really. His hon. Friend said that Captain Macilwain had applied to retire from the service some years ago, and was refused, and that he had now been placed upon the retired list, without his consent or application, and even against his remonstrances; and that statement Captain Macilwain had himself made to a relation of his (Sir Erskine Perry's), a man of distinguished rank in the navy, no longer ago than Sunday last. It appeared to him also that the First Lord of the Admiralty and the Chancellor of the Exchequer had kept out of sight the most important point in this discussion, namely, the mode in which the boroughs were treated to which the First Lord thought of
 1649
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : My hon. and learned Friend the Member for Aylesbury has so pointedly alluded to me in his speech that I am sure the House will pardon me for making a few remarks on the Motion before us. There is one maxim laid down by my hon. and learned Friend in which I entirely agree, and I venture to say that of the justice of his maxim his own speech furnishes a most remarkable illustration. My hon. and learned Friend told us that there is no more fruitful source of error than the misuse and the misapplication of legal terms. I never heard a speech which was a better illustration of that maxim. I never heard a greater tissue of refined fallacies in my life. He began by quoting a statute which was directed, from the very words which he read, against preventing electors by force of arms from going freely to the poll; and he applied that to the case of a law which should prevent voters being influenced by motives in giving their votes. Why, Sir, everybody must see from the very words that that statute is applicable to a totally different state of things from that against which the ballot is levelled. My hon. and learned Friend went into a long and ingenious argument, founding himself entirely upon the circumscribed technicalities of the Court of Chancery as to the meaning of the word "trust" and he was pleased to say that I and my noble Friend the Member for the City were quite wrong in saying some time ago that the electoral franchise was a trust held by the electors for the rest of the community. And my hon. and learned Friend says the term trust refers only to beneficiary interests. He contends that because the Court of Chancery apply one particular meaning to the word "trust," there could only be one meaning to it,—the Chancery mean-
 1675 et intus Palleat infelix quod proxima, nesciat uxor. 1676 1677 vivâ voce 1678 1679 1680 1681
 MR. M'MAHON  moved that the Order be discharged. It was a most mischievous Bill, and he could not tell how it could have escaped from the House of Lords. It had not even been printed as yet.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  admitted the matter was too serious to be disposed of at this period of the Session.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, that this was in point of fact a Consolidation Bill, to unite a number of provisions scattered through a variety of Acts. It referred only to the establishments at Gibraltar and Bermuda; it provided for the appointment of a visiting justice or director of prisons at each place. The greater portion of the Bill affected only the penalties imposed for a number of offences within its scope.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Treasury, why certain Returns which he (Mr. Monsell) had moved for on the
 1687
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it was very desirable that the Acts on this subject should be consolidated. As he understood, no new offices were created, but a new name was given, and they were assimilated as to appointment to the corresponding offices in this country.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, the Government had communicated with the Admiralty and the Post Office Departments on the subject, and they had complied with the request from the Treasury; but there were some Returns required from the Irish Government which had not yet been received; but if they did not speedily arrive, he would have the Returns already obtained laid upon the table, so that those which were wanting might form a supplement to them.
 LORD STANLEY  said, that he would lay a copy of the Tariff on the table when it arrived. At present no copy of the Tariff had reached this country, and the report to which the noble Lord alluded referred merely to a draught of a proposed enactment laid before the Legislative Council. That might be altered by them, and it was impossible to say finally what it would he. In the draught as it stood, linen was not enumerated, and the duty on un-enumerated articles was proposed to be raised from 5 to 10 per cent. With respect to flax and hemp there was an export duty at the rate of 3 per cent, and in the draft that duty was not proposed to be altered.
 GENERAL CODRINGTON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India,
 1728
 LORD STANLEY  said, there had been two Despatches from the Commander-in-Chief on the subject of that action, written on the 2nd and 20th of December, which were published in the  Calcutta Gazettes
 LORD STANLEY , in reply said, that he would inform the hon. and gallant Member of the course he intended to pursue in his statement.
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, I believe that, by the practice and courtesy of the House, Resolutions like those which I am about to submit take precedence of other business. There are some occasions, Sir, when even those who on merely personal grounds are least anxious to find or make opportunities for rhetorical display, must deeply lament the deficiency in themselves of those qualities which are necessary to bring properly before this House a subject such as that which it is now my duty to lay before it. It is a subject not of argument, not of reasoning, not of dry logic; it is a subject
 1730 1731 1732 1733 1734 1735 1736 1737 1738 1739 1740 "The merits of Sir A. Wilson are too widely known to gain anything from encomium by me, but I may be permitted to express my satisfaction at having been able to avail myself of the services of this distinguished officer. The effective fire of the artillery during the long operations that depended so much on the management of that arm elicited general admiration." 1741 "Sir Hope Grant's despatches during the last six months have told the story of the admirable part taken by him in this war. I cannot say too much in his praise. He has the rare merit of uniting the greatest boldness in action to a firm and correct judgment and the most scrupulous regard for his orders and instructions." "I cannot convey to your Lordship in adequate terms my deep sense of the obligations I am under to Major-General Mansfield for the very able and cordial assistance he has afforded me and the service during these operations, and how admirably the very many important duties belonging to his situation have been performed." "I have now the pleasing task of communicating to your Lordship the name of an officer to whom, not only I, as commanding general, but the service at large is under great obligations, Major-General Mansfield, Chief of the Staff, whose labours have been unceasing, whose abilities are of the highest order, and have been of the greatest use to me during this campaign. It is impossible for me to praise this officer too highly, or to re-commend him sufficiently to the protection of your Lordship and the Government." 1742 1743 "The success of the troops has been in no small degree promoted by the incessant and self-denying devotion of Colonel Napier, who has never been absent many hours, by day or night, from any one of the points of operation; whose advice has ever been readily tendered and gratefully accepted by the executive officers, whose earnestness and kind cordiality have stimulated and encouraged all ranks and grades amidst their harassing difficulties and dangerous labours." 1744 1745 1746
 MR. VERNON SMITH : Sir, although it may appear some what presumptuous in me to think that I can add anything to the. speeches which we have just heard, yet I hope the House, considering the position which I filled in the councils of the country during the great part of the mutiny in India, will allow me, in a few short sentences, to express my cordial concurrence me in the Vote of Thanks which the noble Lord has proposed. During the whole of
 1753 1754 1755 1756 1757
 COLONEL NORTH  said he begged to add his tribute of thanks for the services of those distinguished men whose names were mentioned in the Resolutions of the noble Lord. He, thought it was a most important and fortunate circumstance that there should have been at the head of the Government of India when the mutiny broke out a nobleman like Viscount Canning, in the prime of life, full of energy, activity, and courage, and possessed of those qualifications which rendered him especially fitting to meet the difficulties by which he was surrounded. He (Colonel North) believed that since the world began no man was over placed in so
 1758 1759
 GENERAL CODRINGTON  said, that if any doubt could have been thrown upon the value of the thanks of this House that doubt must have been removed by the speech of the noble Lord the Secretary for India, than which he felt sure that nothing could be more eloquent or more acceptable to the service, nor was it his intention to detract in the least degree from the unanimity with which it had been received. It was not the least, however, of the privileges enjoyed by a professional man who had the honour of a seat in that House that he had it in his power, when requested, to defend an absent officer, should that officer's character be at any time called in question. Now, there was one officer to whom he must be allowed to refer on the present occasion because, in the course of the mutiny, he had been grossly blamed, even, by civilians in the service of the East India Company. He alluded to Major General Johnstone, who had commanded at Jallundur. It had been said that that gallant officer neglected his duty, and this had been stated in terms that were even coarse. General Johnstone referred the whole matter to the Commander-in-Chief,
 1762 "It is evident that he was impressed with a strong sense of duty, and acted to the best of his ability; his military character, therefore, stands out clear and unsullied after this inquiry, and the utmost that he can be accused of is an error in judgment in one particular, and the Commander-in-Chief conceives that atonement is due to him." 1763
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, he thought it most desirable that this matter should be set at rest, without reference to party questions, and, in his opinion, the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman met the difficulty in the most satisfactory manner.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to consolidate and amend the Statute Law of England and Ireland relating to offences against the person. This and seven other Bills to amend the Statute Law were the first of a series of Bills amounting, in the whole, to 150, which were in a forward state of preparation, and which, if approved of by Parliament, would complete the consolidation of the entire Statute Law of the United Kingdom. At this period of the Session, and of the Parliament he felt reluctantly withheld from submitting to the House any detailed statement of the intentions of the Government on this important subject. He would merely observe, that after 350 years of inertion—after the efforts of so many of our greatest lawyers and statesmen had failed, the late Government, in pursuance of certain proposals and suggestions of the Statute Law Commission, which was presided over by Lord Cranworth, undertook the commencement of the task. These Bills were arranged with great pains by some of the first lawyers and statesmen of the country, and were introduced into the House of Lords and passed that House in 1856. The late Solicitor General introduced them in this House in 1857, but their progress was interrupted by the dissolution of Parliament. Last Session the House was so occupied with other business that it was found impossible to bring them forward; but early this Session he (the Attorney General) was prepared to lay them on the table. In the interval, however, the Government had come to the conclusion that while consolidating the Statute Law of England, it would be as well to extend the consolidation to that of Ireland. With the able assistance of his right hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General for Ireland, and the late Solicitor General for Ireland, now a learned Judge in that country, those Bills to amend and consolidate the Criminal Statute Law of England and
 1772
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that it would be more convenient, in order that those Gentlemen who were interested in the subject should be able to examine them, that the seven Bills which were finished should be printed. They could not, however, well understand the scheme without the Procedure Bill and the Punishment Bill, which were not yet completed. He would, therefore, mention, that instead of specifying the punishment at the end of the clause which constituted the offence, it had been thought advisable to bring in a separate Bill, defining the punishment assignable to each offence. They proposed to do away with capital punishment in ten cases in which it was now legal, reserving it only for treason and murder. In Ireland conspiracy to murder was a capital offence, but it was proposed to change the law in that respect, so that the Bills would not only consolidate, assimilate, and amend the Criminal Statute Law, but would also ameliorate it in favour of Ireland.
 COLONEL FREESTUN  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary of State for India, previous to his moving the Thanks of the House to the Army in India, whether he will be pleased to include the name of Brigadier General Sir Henry Seaton, K.C.B., who has done such gallant deeds of arms during the war, for that honour. He would only mention a few of his services. He was at the capture of Bhurtpore; served in Afghanistan in 1840, 1841, and 1842; the forcing of the Khoord Cabul and Jugdulluck Passes; defence of Jellalabad and action there in 1842; in the various actions under General Pollock which led to the re-occupation of Cabul; at the siege of Delhi, where he was severely wounded the 23rd of July, 1857, and present at its capture; and brought a convoy, covering ten miles in extent, safely into camp, after beating the enemy, four times his number, who threatened to molest it, and taking their guns.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that while agreeing cordially in nearly all the observations of the noble Lord (Lord Stanley), he must express his regret that it was thought necessary to adhere so strictly to prece-
 1760
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he wished to know from Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether one of the Candidates for
 1729 attaché
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, perhaps I may be allowed the privilege of adding my voice to the Vote of Thanks which has been proposed in such eloquent terms by the noble Lord opposite. I was delighted to hear him speak of the merits and services of those officers who, from the Governor General downward, have distinguished themselves in India, and are mentioned in the vote he has proposed to the House. I certainly shall not pretend to follow him in detailing the deserving conduct of those officers, but shall content myself by saying that in the aggregate there were never greater services performed than those which have been rendered by our civil and military officers who had to meet and resist the dangers of the Indian mutiny. There never was a greater danger, and there never was a more complete sucsess. The dangers we had to encounter, and the successes we achieved in former times in India, from the time of Clive down, great and important as they were, become in a manner insignificant when compared with our recent trials and our recent triumphs. In former times we had to meet the Native forces equipped only with their own arms, adopting only their own mode of campaign, and acting upon defective military science; but in this mutiny we have had to encounter a trained and an immense force, armed and disciplined by ourselves—an arrow feathered from our own wing—and those who have overcome the danger have earned for themselves imperishable glory. Whether we look to the conduct of our troops when acting upon the offensive or defensive—whether we look at the aggressive operations at Delhi, or the marvellous defence of Lucknow—in every part we meet with the greatest courage, endurance, and devotion on the part both of officers and men. Sir, I should not have risen on this occasion if it were not for one thing not
 1752
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that during the discussion which had just terminated he had received a communication from his noble Friend at the head of the Foreign Department, to the effect that it would be conducive to the public interest that his promised statement with respect to the present negotiations on European affairs should be postponed until Monday next. With the permission of the House, therefore, he would postpone his statement on the subject until that day, when his noble Friend would make a similar statement in the other House of Parliament.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the gentleman in question, who had done him the honour of being his Private Secretary, had been  attaché attaché,
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that having moved an Amendment to the Motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury, upon which the Committee, whose Report the House was considering had been appointed, and in which he had served, and having thus brought under the consideration of the House the propriety of requiring notice of the Resolutions which the Act enjoined as necessary to the admission of Jewish candidates to take the oaths required by law, he felt that, having in the first instance brought the matter under the consideration of the House, he was bound to refer to the omission from the Resolution now proposed by the right hon. Member for Cambridge, of all provision for securing adequate notice of the intention to require the House to pass such Resolutions as the Act sanctioned. The Resolution and the standing order which the House was now asked to adopt provided in part for the difficulty by preventing the House being required to pass a Resolution before the Members were sworn at the commencement of a Parliament, That absurdity would be obviated. But whenever afterwards the House might be required by the appearance of a Jewish Member at the table to pass a Resolution for the alteration of the oath to suit the convenience of this Jewish Member, the inconvenience of the want of notice would again be felt. He spoke with deference of the opinion of the Committee, but he confessed that he was surprised at the decision at which they had arrived. He could not think that the House ought to expose itself to the danger of being surprised into the adoption of a Resolution which conveyed a solemn decision of that House, with the authority of law, by the absence of all notice of the intention to require the House to exercise an option and pronounce a judgment. He was surprised that the very distinguished Committee, of which he was a member, had made no provision against such a contingency. He admitted the right of the Jewish Member to time his appearance at the table, as a matter of privilege; but he did not think that it was consistent with the dignity of the House, when made aware of the necessity for its proceeding in accordance with the Act, which it last year sanctioned, by giving a solemn judgment as to the admissibility of a Jewish Member that the House, should not require
 1770
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he must object to the delay of four days before a Member was allowed to take his seat, as a thing unprecedented in the Parliamentary history of this country. The effect of it would be to disqualify the Member for that time, and he believed render him liable to a penalty if he voted for the election of the Speaker. At all events, it would have the effect of continuing a distinction between one class of Her Majesty's subjects and another, which ought no longer to exist. Nothing so bad or intolerant had taken place in the worst days of the Test and Corporation Acts.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he begged to tender his thanks to the Mover and Seconder of the Motion for the steps they had taken towards assimilating the law of Ireland to that of England, and he hoped they would not stop there, but make the assimilation complete.
 MR. WALPOLE : I rise, to call the attention of the House to the Report of the Select Committee on the Jews' Act. The House will recollect that the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe) placed a Motion on the paper for leave to introduce a Bill by means of which some difficulties which it was thought might probably arise in carrying into effect the provisions of the Act of last Session, would be avoided; those difficulties being connected with the question whether a person of the Jewish persuasion would be enabled to take his seat at the commencement of a new Parliament. The hon. Member for Finsbury was anxious to introduce a Bill to enable the House to pass a Standing Order by means of which, until it was repealed, a person of the Jewish persuasion would be able to take his seat. Great difficulties have arisen as to the proper construction of the Act; those difficulties, however, have been considered in Committee, and the Committee think that the doubts created by that Act of Parliament are so great that it would not be prudent to attempt to do by a Standing Order that which the Legislature has empowered either House of Parliament to do by Resolution only. There is this difference between a Standing Order and a Resolu-
 1767 "The distinction between a Resolution and a Standing Order is this, that a Resolution is only binding throughout the then present Session of Parliament in which it is passed, and therefore during that Session it cannot be questioned, although it may be questioned during any other Session of Parliament; but a Standing Order is binding upon all future Parliaments until either repealed or revoked." 1768 Vict., 1769
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he was also of opinion that the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman would continue a distinction which ought to be abolished; but this could only be regarded as a temporary adjustment, and he hoped they would soon see this system of the compulsory administration of oaths put an end to.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that as an old Sepoy officer—and he took pride in the appellation—he deemed it his duty to call the attention of the House to the peculiar circumstances in which the native army of India had been placed during the recent lamented disturbances. He wished the noble Lord had thought it consistent with his duty to mention specifically in this Vote those portions of the armies of Madras and Bombay which had taken so distinguished a part in the suppression of the mutiny. When it was remembered that the Madias force possessed a large infusion of the class of men who constituted the Bengal army, and that the Bombay army contained two-fifths, if not one-half of the same class from the same localities—when it was remembered, too, that the Bengal army was in constant communication with these men, using every possible effort to induce the Madras and Bombay Sepoys to swerve from their duty—it would, he thought, be conceded that native troops had never been exposed to so severe an ordeal, in spite of which they had stood fast to their allegiance, and had manifested in the strongest possible manner their devotion to British interests in India. Those very troops which had done such good service on the frontiers of Madras and Bundelcund under Generals Rose and Roberts, who had been so much and so deservedly eulogized by the noble Lord, had been forwarded to their destination owing to the energy, zeal, and prudence of the Governor of Madras and the Commander-in-Chief in that province. The Bombay Infantry had been justly eulogized, and, he might add, with respect to the cavalry, which consisted of three regiments, that the first, which was composed of Brahmins, Rajpoots, and high-class Mussulmans, had vigorously charged a brigade of mutineers furnished with guns at Neemuch, and had been driven back with desperate loss. The second regiment had been in the field since August, exposed to every kind of privation, and he had re-
 1764
 MR. W. VANSITTART  said, he was anxious to bring under the consideration of the noble Lord and the House one who had rendered great and important services to the English Government during the past five years. Whether it was competent to include the potentate in question in this Vote of Thanks he knew not, but his object would be partially gained by availing himself of this opportunity of bringing his name prominently forward, in the hope of his obtaining that expression of praise and public gratitude which he had so honourably earned. He alluded to Mohamed Said, the present Pasha of Egypt. It was probably in the recollection of hon. Members that during the Crimean war the want of cavalry was much felt, and that Her Majesty's 10th Hussars and the 12th Lancers were accordingly ordered to proceed by the overland route from India to the Crimea. The present Pasha not only forwarded these two splendid regiments, nearly 1600 strong, through his territories from Suez to Alexandria, at his own expense, but during their detention at Cairo he entertained the officers and men in a most hospitable manner. In 1857–8 he rendered every possible assistance in forwarding our troops through his territories, from Alexandria to Suez, in considerable
 1761
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he rose to offer his hearty acknowledgments to the Secretary for India for his very able and judicious speech. No honour was more appreciated by the naval and military services than the Thanks of the House of Commons, and he rejoiced that on the present occasion the vote had been proposed in such handsome and eloquent terms. The noble Lord clearly manifested that he at least did not regard this duty as a mere ceremony: he looked upon it, as it was, as a matter of high importance. He
 1751
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he would take that occasion to ask the Secretary for the Treasury for information with reference to the expenditure of the votes of credit, amounting on the whole for the years 1854, 1855, 1856, to £8,000,000, which had been granted during the Russian war. He wished to ascertain whether the entire of that sum had been expended, and, if not, what the balance was which remained still unappropriated?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, the actual state of the fund to which the hon.
 1766
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, he wished to put a question to the Secretary of State for India. The last Calcutta Mail had brought information that it was intended to levy a new scale of Duties in India; the Tariff showed a Duty of 5 per cent on Manchester goods, and as high as 40 per cent on other articles. On looking over it he found no mention of Flax, Hemp, Jute, or Linen; he therefore wished to know whether it is intended to levy any Export Duty on Flax, Hemp, or Jute, or any import Duty on Linen Manufactures, and also whether there will be any objection to lay a Copy of the Tariff on the Table?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON .—Sir, in rising to second the Motion of the noble Lord opposite, I do not hope, nor will I attempt to add anything to those glowing and manifestly heartfelt commendations which the noble Lord has bestowed, in the speech which I am sure we have all listened to with the utmost sympathy and admiration, upon the distinguished men, civil, military, and naval, who are the subjects of the vote which he has proposed. But I cannot refrain from asking permission of the House to have the honour of coupling my name with the tribute of gratitude and respect which the noble Lord has now proposed that we shall offer to the persons who are the subjects of the Resolution. Sir, the occasion upon which we are now assembled is one of those bright periods which from time to time occur amidst the hostile conflicts of party politics in this House. There are occasions on which this House, forgeting all that party strife which is incident to the working of our constitution, and remembering only that it is the representation of the nation which sent us here, unites in offering a tribute of honour and gratitude to those men who have the good fortune to perform great services for their country; and those occasions are not only gratifying and honourable to the members of this House, but they are occasions on which this House becomes more than ever the organ and expression of the feelings of
 1747 1748 1749 1750
 COLONEL CLIFFORD  said, he had given notice of his intention to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether any subsequent information obtained by him will enable him to qualify his statement as to a public meeting alleged to have been held in Hereford previously to the recent appointment of Magistrates in that city; and if not, whether he will state his authority for the same; and to call the attention of the House thereto? That statement had caused astonishment and dissatisfaction in Hereford, though there was no person in that House who did not believe that the right hon. Gentleman was the last person who would willingly make a statement not consistent with the facts. It would be remembered that not long since his hon. Friend and Colleague (Mr. Clive) presented a petition from the municipal authorities and other inhabitants of the city of Hereford, complaining of the appointment of six magistrates. The petitioners stated that there was no necessity for additional magistrates, that no application had been made for any, that they got no intimation of any intention to make the appointment, and that some of the gentlemen named were objectionable for special reasons, two being retail dealers, and one an un-certificated bankrupt. He was sorry to have to make a statement of a personal nature, but the petitioners made distinct mention of that matter, wishing it to be understood that their objections were made not merely on political grounds. On that occasion the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State answered that the appointments had been regularly made; that a public meeting had been held, and a communication made to the Lord Chancellor, which resulted in the appointments. It would be almost impossible for him strictly to prove a negative, but in this case he was prepared to do so as nearly as possible. Before he sat down he would be able, he thought, to show to the House that no such meeting had ever been held. He would first read a letter which he had received from the Mayor of Hereford, dated 12th of April, 1859:—
 "Sir, I was greatly surprised to see it stated in  The Times 1797 "Sir, I am directed by the Lord Chancellor to request that you will forward to the Crown office, through your London agent, the commission of peace for the borough of Hereford, in order that some new names may be added to it. As soon as they are finally decided on, the list will be sent to the mayor."
 MR. CLIVE  said, the noble Lord had referred to what took place in March, 1858, to prove the necessity of the new appointments. But they were not made by the Lord Chancellor until ten months after, and at a time when it was evident, from the good attendance on the bench, that there was no necessity for any additional magistrates whatever. He believed it was not true that only two Conservative names had been sent up by the corporation. It was utterly untrue that they had any reason whatever to believe that Lord Chancellor Cranworth would not appoint the gentleman alluded to, who was a wine-merchant in large business, and a man of the highest respectability. On the contrary, their feeling was that the Lord Chancellor had been extremely hypercritical. He took it upon himself, therefore, to give the flattest contradiction consistent with the rules of the House and his respect for the noble Lord to the statements he had just made. The right hon. Gentleman had given no answer to the allegation that one of the gentlemen recently appointed had been a bankrupt. As to the meeting, the right hon. Gentleman might as well say that the meeting held the other day to decide who was to go to Dovor was a public meeting.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, the facts of the matter as regards Bristol were shortly these:—The Whig Administration had always made their appointments to the magistracy upon fair and equitable principles: whereas the Tory Administration, in making those appointments, were influenced by party feeling, and nothing else.
 MR. WILSON  said, he also wished to ask a question with regard to this tariff. On a former occasion he had thought it his duty to call attention to the fact that the tariff then existing in India was, as far as it related to English goods, a protective tariff, since under its imports from England were charged 5 per cent, while imports from foreign countries were charged 10 per cent. He had also stated that that was a principle which had been abandoned years ago with regard to our Colonies, and he could not understand why British manufactures in India should require protection in the Indian market. He had therefore taken the liberty of suggesting that it would only be fair to raise the duty on British manufactures to an equality with those of foreign manufactures. he wished to ask whether the increase referred to in the telegram just received referred only to the duties on British manufactures, so as to raise them to an equality with foreign manufactures, or whether both the duties on British and foreign goods were to be increased in a corresponding manner?
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he trusted the House would at once permit him to answer the call made upon him. He must complain that the hon. Member (Mr. Kinnaird) had not given him notice of his intention to allude to the statement he (Mr. Vernon Smith) had made on the previous evening with respect to Sir John Lawrence. In that statement he did not for a moment mean to cast the slightest reproach upon Sir John Lawrence. All he did was to state that he believed the moderate firmness of his noble Friend the Governor General of India was such that he ventured on one occasion to repudiate
 1807
 GENERAL CODRINGTON  said, he was glad the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster (Sir De Lacy Evans) had brought under the notice of the House the mortality and disease in a detachment of the 41st Regiment at Trinidad, because the correspondence on the subject showed that an interval of a year and nine months had elapsed between the discovery that that disease and mortality were referable to the bad order of a drain and the application of a remedy. He should be glad to hear that a certain responsibility—one extending to the outlay of a certain sum of money—would be vested in officers so as to remedy defective drainage, in such cases as that referred to by the hon. and gallant Member. He would take that
 1808
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he rose according to notice to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether, according to his promise, he has obtained the opinion of Mr. Attorney General respecting the legality of the Earl of Malmesbury refusing to pay the £200 Stamp Duty required by the Act 55  Geo. 1809
 LORD STANLEY  said, he rose to answer the somewhat miscellaneous series of questions which had been put to him by various hon. Members during the course of the discussion. And first with regard to the delay of which the hon. Member for Perth (Mr. Kinnaird) complained in the transmission and distribution of official papers from India: there were two reasons for that delay. In the first place it was in the nature of things that an official and authorized account of a transaction should generally arrive rather later than a private and unauthenticated account, because a private correspondent of any person in this country, or a correspondent of a public journal, generally took their facts from current rumour, not writing under the same sense of responsibility for absolute and entire accuracy; but as this sense did operate on the minds of those who were responsible for the transmission of official documents, more consideration was given to them. This was one cause of delay in the forwarding of those documents. Again, except in cases of great importance, it was not customary to transmit an official narrative of events from India until the local authorities had considered and given an opinion on them. This was another cause of that delay to which the hon. Member referred. With regard to the hon. Gentleman's statement as to what had taken place at Travancore, he (Lord Stanley) had heard various versions of those transactions not exactly tallying in details. When the hon. Gentleman, however, asked him to give a hypothetical pledge as to what he would do in the event of certain circumstances turning out to have occurred in this way or in that, he (Lord Stanley) must, with all courtesy to the hon. Gentleman and all respect to the House, say
 1810 1811
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he had no objection to answer the question of the hon. and learned Gentleman, although he must do so under a protest, as he did not think the House of Commons was the place to inquire into the composition of a legal tribunal. When a similar question was brought before the House by the late John Sadleir, in 1850, Sir John Jervis, who was then Attorney General, protested against
 1812 "Sir M. Barrington gave me your message just now, and I report forthwith as to the jurors set aside by me, and for what cause, on the recent Riband trials at Belfast assizes. Upon the first trial I set aside eight jurors; upon the second trial nine, one of these nine having been on the first jury. I give the names of the jurors and a memorandum of objection. First trial:—Patrick Tower, D. R. Brannigan, Edward M'Hugh, and William Kane, dealers in spirits; William Ross, Thomas Byrne, and John Cramsie, violent party men; William M'Caldin, who was stated to me to be an atheist and party man. All the above I believe are Roman Catholics, except M'Caldin. Second trial:—Terence O'Brien, Patrick Tower, Edward M'Hugh, William Kane, Daniel Murphy, and John Coolan, dealers in spirits; Charles Hamill and P. M'Caldin, violent party men; Thomas Kennedy, of the first jury. All the above I believe are Roman Catholics, except
 1813 petit 1814 "He is the only placeman I ever knew who did his duty to his employers without acrimony, party spirit, or virulence. He is a most excellent pub-lie officer. I never knew a better." "For twenty-five or twenty-six years I defended every prisoner on the Munster Circuit; the prosecutions were conducted by Mr. Mathew Barrington, and I never knew a man who conducted prosecutions more fairly in the exercise and full performance of his duty to the Crown, but also without the least attempt to take any undue or improper advantage of the prisoner on his trial. He displayed great intelligence and great impartiality in the perfect performance of his duty, with the greatest anxiety that the subject should not be oppressed, or a conviction improperly had. Of course, Mr. Barrington cannot be a candidate for the office of Crown Solicitor, now vacant, for he has another province, and therefore I cannot be guilty of any impropriety in mentioning his name, but I point him out as a model, as the sort of person that should be appointed to prosecute on the part of the Crown." "On the first trial the prisoner challenged sixteen persons, all Protestants, and the Crown set by four, two of whom were Protestants, and two Roman Catholics. The jury was composed of eight Protestants and four Roman Catholics. The jury disagreed after being locked up an entire night, and it was understood that two of them, both Roman Catholics, would not agree to a verdict. It was stated by one of the jury, in a letter published in the newspapers, that two of the jury would not listen to reason or argument. Great censure was given to the public officers for leaving these men on the jury, and yet if they had been put by, it would have been said it was done because they were Roman Catholics. Upon the second trial the Crown consented not to call the former jury, by which the prisoner had the advantage of not having to challenge the ten jurors who agreed to a verdict of guilty, and he then
 1815 1816 "With respect to the propriety of setting aside jurors on account of their political opinions, I do not think that the instructions given on the subject by previous law officers were ever intended to apply to a case like the present, in which a party is to be tried for a political offence, and is openly supported and countenanced by certain political associations." "All that I wish for is a fair, impartial, and unbiassed jury; and, in my opinion, to allow any not coming within this description to be sworn would be to defeat the administration of the law, and be totally inconsistent with the true principle of trial by jury, which is that the juror should stand indifferent between the Crown and the prisoner." Freeman's Journal 1817
 MR. WHITESIDE  explained that he had not said that the gentleman was not fit to be a juror; but what he did say was, that a person who had been convicted of conspiracy himself was not a fit person to try another for conspiracy.
 ADMIRAL DUNCOMBE  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty why the vacancy on the (A) Flag Officers' List, caused by the death of Admiral Douglas in December last, has not been filled up, in accordance with the Order in Council of the 25th of June, 1851? Nineteen vacancies had occurred of which eighteen had been filled up, but the nineteenth still remained open. By not filling up this vacancy a great hardship was inflicted on certain officers in the service. The senior captain on the list, who would otherwise have received promotion, enjoyed a good-service pension, and the difference of pay would not therefore be to him considerable; but had he happened meanwhile to die, his widow would not have received so large a pension as if he had received promotion in the ordinary course. It was certainly not from any desire to create patronage that the First Lord had abstained from filling up the va-
 1821
 SIR G. C. LEWIS  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for War a question on the subject of the numerical force of troops to be retained in India during the next financial year; and as there appeared to exist some misundertanding as to what had been stated the other evening, perhaps the right hon. and gallant Gentleman would have the kindness to state distinctly to the House, so far as his memory would serve him, what was the present number of troops of all arms in India, and what reduction he contemplated making in the course of the year, inasmuch as the Estimates had no doubt been framed with a view to that prospective reduction. He would also ask whether there was any foundation for the statement which was made on a former
 1822
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he would first reply to the question of the hon. and gallant General the Member for Westminster (Sir De Lacy Evans), with respect to the detachment of the 41st Regiment at Trinidad. The authority by which the troops had been moved from camp to barracks was the local authority on the spot. They were encamped in consequence of the outbreak of fever in September, and were probably sent back to barracks because the fever had ceased to rage. From information he had received that morning it appeared that the troops were now in camp, and therefore he did not know for certain that they had ever been sent back to bar-
 1823 1824 The Gazette 1825
 MR. GILPIN  said, in the absence of the Secretary of State for the Colonies, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether the Government assent has been given to the Jamaica Immigration Bill. Also, if the Papers on Immigration, which the Right hon. Baronet thought would be ready by the 31st of March, are yet ready. And, if the following Papers will be ready to be laid before Parliament previous to its Dissolution:—Returns of the number of Immigrants from India and China who have been introduced into the British East or West India Colonies since 1835; with a Statement of the mortality on the passage; the duration of the voyage; of the number who have left each Colony to return home; of those who died there; of those who have become chargeable as paupers or otherwise on the Colony; how those that remain are employed; and a Statement showing what proportion of the expenses on Immigration account has been paid out of the funds of each Colony, and how much out of the Imperial Exchequer?
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : The eloquent and graceful speeches of the noble Lord last evening, the Secretary of State for India, and the noble Viscount the Member for Tiverton, in which they bore testimony to the enduring and victorious services of the army in India have afforded me the liveliest gratification. My motive for silence on the occasion of that Vote of Thanks was this,—I was apprehensive that any language which I might employ would appear to attach any undue importance to the services of that profession to which I have the honour to belong, in the suppression of the mutiny, since the number were small in proportion to those of the army. It has been to me, therefore, a deep pleasure to observe an inadvertent omission at that time, now repaired, the tribute and award of the thanks of the House in the general to the naval officers, seamen, and marines, and the particular introduction of the name of Captain Sotheby, the worthy successor of the heroic William Peel, as the highest honour this House can confer, and from its impartiality touching every heart in the naval brigade.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that since he had entered the House he had offered privately to the right hon. Gentleman to put the matter off till Monday, if that would be more convenient to him, but the right hon. Gentleman had told him that he thought he should not be in the House on that day. That being so, he thought he had not been wanting in courtesy to the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, before he referred to the subject respecting which he had given notice of his intention to put a question to the Government on the subject— the disturbances in Travancore—he was anxious to allude to what had fallen in the debate of the previous evening from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Northampton (Mr. Vernon Smith). His right hon. Friend observed that Viscount Canning had put aside the advice tendered him by both extremes, that he had put
 1804 "The King of Delhi made overtures which had been referred by General Reid to Sir John Lawrence, who suggested in reply that they should be accepted on conditions which the King could not comply with, and the matter dropped. The reason why those overtures had been entertained at that early time for a moment was, that had the King been in a position by his innocence of blood-guiltiness to accede to those conditions the best possible results might have been produced, the neck of the mutiny would have been broken, the lives of thousands of our countrymen who died in the struggle which ensued would have been saved, a most distinguished general (General Nicholson) would have been spared to his country, and millions of money would have been economized. What Lord Canning had really done months after these negotiations had ended, was to write to the Lieutenant Governor of Agra to say that no negotiations should be entered into with the King of Delhi without his sanction. That communication, however, had had no effect whatever on the siege of Delhi, as, in the meanwhile Sir John Lawrence had sent down troops and munitions of war which had enabled Sir A. Wilson to storm the fortress successfully. Lord Canning's message, in fact, could only have reached Sir A. Wilson a few hours before the storming of Delhi took place, and the scene of operations was so distant from Calcutta that whether he wished or not he could have had no influence on the siege." 1805 régime 1806
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, that when the same proceedings took place on the part of other Lord Chancellors the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Newdegate) would be justly entitled to complain. There could not be a breath of suspicion in reference to the way in which the late Lord Chancellor had exercised his patronage. He must altogether repudiate the theory just laid down by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire as to the justice of effecting a balance in the political views of the magistrates. It should be recollected that in most of the towns political feeling ran strongly in one direction, and the consequence was that if the leading gentlemen of those towns were put in the commission, the larger portion of them must necessarily be of one political opinion. If politics were to be regarded in this matter, which he did not think they ought to be, he could never concur in the doctrine of his hon. Friend, that however small a party might he in a borough, nevertheless that an equal number of gentlemen representing that party should be appointed magistrates, as had been appointed from the party of the great majority. In Scotland they never heard such complaints. In that country the appointments of the magistracy were in the hands of the Lord-
 1801
 MR. LIDDELL  said, that he had had a notice on the paper to ask a question, and he must complain of the turn which the order of business had taken, by which a great number of topics were being discussed on the Motion for adjournment, which stood on the paper for consideration after the questions had been put.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, his simple answer to this charge was this:—The gentleman alluded to was a bankrupt some thirty-two years ago, in consequence of the failure of his brother. That gentleman had been carrying on business ever since, without the slightest stain having ever attached to his character.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that in moving the Second Reading of this Bill he wished to state that, although there was no chance of passing this Bill during the present Session, he thought it desirable to take as many steps with regard to it in this Parliament as possible. Its main object was to empower the Government to obtain possession of those houses it was necessary to acquire for the construction of the approaches to that half of the new bridge which, as he expected, would be opened in November next. It was necessary to secure them as early as possible, as the expense might be enhanced in price by delay. The total expenses of the bridge were estimated at £316,000, of which £96,000 still required to be voted by Parliament. There was another sum which would arise from the sale of houses already acquired, but the Treasury had thought it wise to defer the sale of those houses for the present, as the value of them would all be much increased by the new bridge, and especially those which lay to the north of Bridge Street.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that the whole superstructure of the bridge was being done under contract with Messrs. Cochrane, but that the piers and foundations were being done by piecework by Mr. Page, the engineer.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that if he were to name an estimate for the approaches, it might induce a jury to put a higher value on them than they were really worth. A rough estimate of the expense had been made a few years since, which he would be happy to show the noble Lord, but he thought that it was better, on public grounds, that it should not be made generally known.
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  said, he might refer to a local newspaper of Radical or Liberal politics for a proof of the necessity for the appointment of additional magistrates in Hereford. It stated that on the 4th of March, 1858, two summonses for assault were returned, which could not be
 1799
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply to the question of the
 1827 1828
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he had listened to numerous discussions that had been raised on the appointments to the
 1800
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for India whether it is contemplated to impose any, and, what Duty on Hardware under the new Tariff in India?
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said he thought that that statement coincided with what he had said. He thought that his statement was fully borne out; for the hon. and learned Gentleman said in effect that because this gentleman had been convicted of this offence he was for ever afterwards to be incapable of discharging the duty of a citizen. He was proceeding, when interrupted, to say that he had recommended this gentleman to be a magistrate because he considered, from the high character which he bore in the county, that he was fit to be on the bench; and he still held that opinion. When he received the letter to which he had referred, he wrote back to the gentleman and stated that he thought it would be a great loss to the public of Tralee if he persisted in his determination; and added, that because the Government had acted improperly, he did not think that that was any reason why the public should be deprived of his services. If the Government now thought otherwise they had the remedy in their own hands, for the Lord Chancellor could take away the commission which the gentleman no longer wished to hold. He (Mr. H. Herbert) repudiated any wish to excite sympathy for
 1820
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, that in answer to the appeal of the right hon. and learned Gentleman, he had no hesitation in repeating what he had already stated, that he had no doubt of the prisoner's guilt. Having read the charge of the Judge, whose reputation stood very high in Ireland, he could not for one single moment doubt the justice of the verdict. And more, he did not say that because a jury was a Protestant jury it necessarily followed that they would give an unfair verdict. On the contrary, he believed they would give a just and righteous verdict. Still he regretted the course which was pursued by the law officers of the Crown. He wished to make no attack on Sir Matthew Barrington; but the right hon. and learned Gentleman on the other side (Mr. Whiteside) had given no reason why the eight other gentlemen, other than Mr. O'Connor, were ordered to stand by at the trial. The right hon. and learned Gentleman had stated that it had been the practice to tell jurymen who might be supposed to have a bias in favour of a prisoner to stand by, but he did not deny or explain the fact that on that occasion every Roman Catholic was told to stand by; and that therefore the jury was composed of gentlemen exclusively Protestant. If ever there was an occasion on which not only was it just, but it would have been politic and prudent, to avoid even the appearance of introducing anything like proceedings of a sectarian character in a trial, it was that of which they were now speaking. What was the case? The right hon. and learned Gentleman had told them that there was a political conspiracy in Ireland. No doubt such was proved to have been the case. There was such a conspiracy, of the object and proceedings of which he hoped it was not necessary for him to say that he entertained the utmost abhorrence. But what were the circumstances? The con-
 1818 1819
 MR. SPEAKER  said, when the Motion for adjournment was disposed of, it would be competent for hon. Members to put the questions which stood on the paper in their names.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he wished to ask the Attorney General for Ireland whether he can give any explanation relative to the setting aside of Jurors on the late Trials for Ribbonism at Belfast, and state the names of the Jurors set aside, and the cause for which each Juror was set aside?
 COLONEL KINGSCOTE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for India whether it is the intention of Government, now that the Commissioned Ranks of Her Majesty's Indian Artillery and Engineers have been so fully assimilated in other respects to those branches of the Army at home, to complete the uniformity by extending to the Retired Field Officers the privilege enjoyed by those of the Royal Artillery and Engineers, of not allowing them to be superseded (in rank) by their brother officers who remain on the effective strength of their corps?
 MR. DE VERE  said, he must express his surprise at hearing it stated by the hon. Member for Hereford that one of the magistrates to whom the commission of the peace was given was an uncertificated bankrupt. If that statement were true, he thought no appointment could be more disgraceful, and that this House was bound to call upon Her Majesty's Ministers to institute an inquiry into the subject, and if it were proved that the appointment had been given under such circumstances, then such appointment should be revoked.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, that in reply to the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Duncombe) he had to state that the person who, he would not say urged upon the Lord Chancellor the appointment of five additional magistrates for Newbury, but upon whose application that appointment took place, was no other than the Recorder of the borough. That gentleman wrote to the Lord Chancellor to say that there was such a deficiency of magistrates that very often a bench could not be formed, and he suggested that his Lordship should write to the town council and ask them to send up the names of competent gentlemen. The Lord Chancellor did so; but the town council could not agree upon the names, and so resolved that no additional magistrates were wanted. The Recorder afterwards wrote a second time to the Lord
 1798 "I was present at a meeting of about twenty persons, of whom seven were town-councillors, held at Hereford early in April, 1858, for the purpose of considering who should be recommended to the Lord Chancellor as additional magistrates."
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he rose to ask a question respecting the appointment of five new magistrates for the borough of Newbury, and, as he intended to make some observations on the subject, he would move that the House at its rising adjourn till Monday next. The last ease of the sort he had the honour of bringing under the consideration of the House was that of Huntingdon, where six magistrates were appointed, all Tories. It appeared, however, that he had been wrong in one particular, he had stated that four of them were clergymen whereas only
 1795 1796
 MR. CONINGHAM  said he wished to ask the Right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer a question with respect to some recent purchases of paintings which have been made for the National Gallery. He perceived that three purchases of early Italian pictures had been recently made. One of them was said to be a picture of Marco Bassaiti, which he had carefully examined, and with respect to which he had consulted persons who had great experience in the purchase of pictures, who entirely agreed with him in the opinion that the whole surface of the picture had been restored, and that it had been so stippled over as to have been rendered worthless and worse than useless. In fact it was a disgrace to a national institution where none but models in art ought to be exhibited. There was also a picture by Cima de Conegliano which presented a most unfavourable specimen of restoration, and which he believed had been purchased for the National Gallery from some French dealer in Paris
 1826
 MR. MONSELL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War why the report of the last competing examination for Cadetships in the Royal Academy at Woolwich was not published within the usual time after the conclusion of the examination; and why there has not been the usual public notice of the approaching examination? In his opinion one cause of the great success of the examinations at Woolwich was the great publicity connected with them. Of the seven previous examinations the reports had been published within a very short time; but of the examination which was held three months ago there had been no report.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he would just express a hope that the Government intended to mark their sense of the transcendent services of Sir J. Lawrence by
 1803
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, it was too late to object to the approaches now, as, if they had a bridge, they must have approaches.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  asked if the Estimate included the sum required for
 1794
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was the more willing to answer the question of his gallant Friend, because it was free from that electioneering character which attached to a good deal that had been heard that evening. He had to state in reply that when the vacancy occurred, the pension was offered to a gallant admiral, but the offer was declined, and he (Sir John Pakington) was informed, perhaps incorrectly, that from the peculiar nature of that pension list, previous offers of a similar character had been declined. He had considered it better to suspend the filling up of the list for a time, under the belief that a new system of retirement which he had in contemplation would render it unnecessary to retain this list at all; and, indeed, the list was only one of many contrivances that were resorted to, from time to time, as substitutes for a well-regulated system of naval retirement. He thought when such a system was adopted the list would be altogether unnecessary. He had not matured his plans, however, and consequently it would be a hardship to continue the vacancy any longer. He had therefore the pleasure of informing his gallant Friend that some days ago he had determined to fill up the appointment. He had not yet matured his plans, and therefore he believed it would be hard to continue the suspension any longer, and consequently he had, within the last few days, filled up the vacancy.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, he perceived it was stated in  The Times 1802
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, he wished to know what would be the probable expense of the whole, including the approaches?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I hope the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Admiralty will not find fault with me when I say that the question I am about to put to the right hon. Gentleman opposite will be decidedly of an electioneering character. All I wish to ask is this, whether Her Majesty's Government have come to any decision at present as to the day on which the dissolution is to take place, and whether the writs will be issued on that day; or, if not, on what other subsequent day they will be issued? I am sure that the right hon. Gentleman will excuse me for making this inquiry, because it is a, matter in which great anxiety is felt by all parties, for it is exceedingly inconvenient to them, having regard to their various arrangements, to be kept in suspense as to the time when the elections will take place. Therefore, if Government will give us some positive information on this subject, I am sure they will be conferring a positive obligation.
 GENERAL PEEL,  who was very indistinctly heard, said the grounds upon which he had recommended the removal of Lieutenant Colonel Dickson were purely of a military character, arising out of circumstances connected with the affairs of the Regiment for which Colonel Dickson as commanding officer was responsible. Colonel Dickson was not tried by Court Martial, and had not, therefore, an opportunity of rebutting the charges made against him before such a tribunal, but he should think him fully entitled to any advantage he might derive from the verdict he had gained in the Court of Queen's Bench. As far, however, as the evidence taken in the course of that trial related to the military aspect of the question, the opinions expressed by his Royal Highness the Commander-in-Chief, the Adjutant General, and other Military Officers, only confirmed the view he (General Feel) had taken. He had not the slightest doubt that the Jury had done their duty; he was quite certain he had done his; and he had no intention to recommend Her Majesty to reinstate Lieutenant Colonel Dickson.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he rose to move a Resolution, to the effect that it was not competent to the Secretary of State for India to send orders and instructions through the Secret Department to the Governments and Presidencies in India on any subject not being a matter concerning the levying war, or making peace, or treating or negotiating with any of the Native Princes or States in India. He would first say a few words in explanation of the origin and functions of the Secret Committee of the East India Company, and its relations to the Board of Control and to the Governor General and the Governors of Presidencies, previous to the recent change in the Government of India, preparatory to calling attention to the despatch of the noble Lord the Secretary of State for India of the 9th of December last. This latter despatch did not purport to have been submitted to the Council, and from subsequent explanation it appeared to have been transmitted by a process which he would designate the Secret Department.
 GENERAL THOMPSON  said, what he wished to ask was, whether there was any fear that Sardinia would attack anybody. It was as though the persons inside a post-chaise should be called upon to disarm by those outside. Sardinia was the man inside. Was it Austria or Sardinia, that ought in reason to be asked to disarm? The relative position of the two Powers showed the extreme impropriety of calling upon the weaker to do it. It was most unreasonable that a Power so deeply interested in the question as Sardinia, should be refused admission to the Congress. Nothing analogous to such a proposal could be found in municipal law, or in the relations between individuals; and that which was repugnant to justice in the case of individuals, could not be right in the case of nations. It was by public consent that peace was to be maintained among nations; and war would never be prevented unless by cultivating the natural dispositions of mankind, which were as prominent in nations as in individuals.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, if I did not immediately follow the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, as the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe) seemed to expect I should, it was, in the first place, because I concurred so completely in all his observations that I did not wish to trouble the House with any statement which would have been a mere repetition of the observations of the noble Lord; but, in the second place, I will say that I feel so deeply the responsibility which attaches to any statement that can be made in this House that I fear, though it may be as far as possible from my intentions in speaking on this subject, lest I might drop words which might tend to impair in the smallest degree the prospect of maintaining peace in Europe. I have felt during all these discussions that not only was there that danger to which the Chancellor of the Exchequer alluded—the danger that any war which began in Italy might spread and cause Europe to be engaged in a general war, but also that for the cause of Italy herself it was most desirable—I may say essential—that peace should not be broken.
 1887 1888 1889
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER,  having brought up to the table, by command of Her Majesty, copies of treaties political and territorial, relative to the Italian States, said,—Sir, in moving that these papers be laid upon the table I shall redeem the pledge I have given to the House, and shall afford an opportunity to hon. Gentlemen who may follow me to make any observations they may wish on this subject, and I am sure that in so doing they will make those remarks with all the reserve that is in their opinion consistent with the exercise of a public duty. I promised, Sir, that I would to-day
 1864 1865 1866 1867 1868 1869 1870 1871 1872 1873
 MR. BRISCOE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department if he can give any information concerning the death of a boy named Joseph Marsden, which is reported to have been caused or accelerated by cruel usage at the Reformatory Hulk  Akbar
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he thought that in this case disarmament—the mere diminution of the material force of armies—was not what was required, but
 1890 1891 1892 régime 1893
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he was glad that his hon. Friend had, by his question, afforded him an opportunity of correcting the misapprehensions which existed on this subject. A rumour had been circulated that a boy on board the Reformatory Hulk  Akbar "I beg to report, for the information of Mr. Secretary Sotheron Estcourt, that I was apprized by the Superintendent of the Akbar School Ship Reformatory, at Liverpool, of the sudden death of a boy named Joseph Marsden, under detention in that institution, and was informed by him that great excitement prevailed in connection with the event among the inhabitants of that part of Birkenhead which the ship is near, in consequence of the statements circulated and published in the newspapers that the boy had died in consequence of ill-usage, having been, as it was asserted, 'flogged to death.' I attended the adjourned inquest at Birkenhead, on Tuesday last, the 12th instant, in consequence, and have the honour to enclose herewith a full and correct report of the evidence given on the occasion and the verdict agreed to. From these it will be seen that the officers of the  Akbar 1862 post mortem
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he perceived that the hon. and gallant Member for Aberdeen had a Notice on the Paper of a Motion for the production of certain Papers connected with the Commission
 1861
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for War whether it is his intention to recommend Her Majesty to reinstate Lieutenant Colonel Dickson, late of the Tower Hamlets Militia, after the Verdict obtained by that Officer in the Court of Queen's Bench against the Colonel of that Regiment?
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that on a former occasion when the House was going to discuss the state of Italy, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer told them, and told them almost confidentially, that the French and Austrian armies were about to evacuate the Roman States. The noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, and the noble Lord the Member for London, then congratulated the Government on the statement, and concurred in the suggestion that in such a position of things, not one word should be said on the subject. Now, however, it turned out that the right hon. Gentleman bamboozled those noble Lords, who in their turn gagged the House, on that occasion, and now things
 1880 "But the Cabinet of Turin believes at the same time that Piedmont ought to be represented at this Congress, and it is persuaded that its intervention would be useful, not to say indispensable, if the Powers which show a proved sympathy for Italy, and those which desire to obviate the danger of the abnormal state of the Peninsula, think that they can render prevalent a system more conformable to justice by obtaining concessions and guarantees of a nature to calm the public mind. Sardinia enjoys the confidence of the unhappy populations whose fate is about to be decided." 1881
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said that if he Lad the honour of a seat in the next Parliament he would move for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the conduct of the right hon. and gallant General and the Horse Guards with reference to Colonel Dickson, and also into the conduct of one of the Officers who was a Member of the Board of Inquiry subsequent to the proceedings of that Board, and during the trial to which he had referred.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I cannot help expressing my regret that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Finsbury should have said that which, as I am afraid the event will prove, will tend greatly and inconveniently to widen the field of this discussion. He has complained of the remarks made by the noble Viscount the Member for Tiverton, but, so far as it appears to me, the great merit of those remarks lies in the sedulous avoidance of whatever could tend to irrelevant, and in the strict adherence to the immediate, matter in debate. I am sure the hon. Member for Finsbury (whose goodwill towards the suffering people of Italy cannot be doubted) can hardly be of opinion that he contributes to a satisfactory solution of the existing difficulties, by urging in this House upon the Government that no remedy can be effectual short of the expulsion of Austria from Italy and a great alteration in the treaties of 1815, and going one step further and complaining that the policy of Her Majesty's Go-
 1882 1883 1884 Cries of 1885
 MR. CONINGHAM  said he did not think that the observations of the hon. Member for Finsbury were justly obnoxious to the censure of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford. Those observations were in accordance with the sentiments of the English people, who had seen with the deepest concern the frightful misgovernment which prevailed in the Italian peninsula, and which was created and prolonged by the direct inter position and constant pressure of Austria. He did not think that the explanation of
 1886
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, some time ago a memorial was presented to the First Lord of the Admiralty with regard to the position of the Medical Officers in the Navy. The right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington) had promised on several occasions to state what were his intentions in the matter, and as Parliament is on the eve of dissolution, he wished to learn from the right hon. Gentleman whether he will grant the prayer of the Memorialists, and, if so, when their wishes are likely to be carried into effect.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he thought that the demand which had been made on Piedmont by Austria to disarm was but too well calculated to produce a hostile feeling in the case of the latter. If Piedmont were not admitted to the Conference as one of the Powers most interested, he did not see how that Congress would lead to a pacific result. It must not be forgotten that, in making this demand, Piedmont did not represent herself only, but was the representative and mouthpiece, as it were, of all those States over whom Austria had for many years exercised an influence which was injurious to their progress and to liberty. The misgovernment of these States arose from the fear, that if they made any effort for liberty, Austrian troops would be poured down upon them. The interference of Austria in those States was not justified by the treaty of Vienna,
 1896
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he thought the House had very slender materials for a discussion on the statements made by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and therefore he would only make this observation, that while it was impossible for them not to take an interest in the constitutional kingdom of Piedmont, still if the Congress did meet, three, and probably four, of the five Powers who were to compose it—that was to say, England, Russia, Prussia, and France—would be found to take a deep interest in the welfare of Piedmont. He hoped their endeavours to avert war would be successful, as it was perfectly clear that the first hostile cannon fired would be fatal to the welfare of Piedmont. It mattered not, whether she was successful in the war or unsuccessful. If Austria were to succeed, the consequence to her would be disaster and ruin. But if she, with the assistance of France, were to succeed in driving out the Austrians, the consequences would be scarcely less disas-
 1897
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said that the question raised by the Memorial had been determined in favour of the Medical Officers, and it now only remained to obtain the consent of the Treasury. He was in hopes that in the Council to be held on Saturday nest that arrangements would be finally concluded for placing the Medical Officers of the Navy in a position of equality with those of the Army. It was, however, possible that an Order in Council might not be made then, but in the event of its not being so made, it would undoubtedly be issued at the next general Council, whenever that should take place.
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, he had listened with apprehension and regret to the speeches which had been made following the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. It appeared to him that in the present state of Europe, the interests of civilization, of Europe, of Italy itself, and of our own country, the most pressing necessity was to arrest the imminent risk of war. Let them get rid, if they could, of this danger which threatened Europe, and then let them apply their efforts to the improvement of the state of Italy. No such improvement could be effected, as the noble Lord had observed, by the ravages of war or by the collision of these great military monarchies, and yet he feared that the whole course of the observations made by those who followed in the debate rather tended to remove the last chance of peace. What was the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer? That on this great question of disarmament, after Austria had put forward a proposition which he perfectly acknowledged was somewhat unreasonable, namely, that Sardinia alone should disarm as a preliminary to the Congress—that Austria withdrew that proposition, and substituted for it one for a general disarmament. France acquiesced in that proposition, and was willing that it
 1894 1895
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I trust, Sir, that in the very few observations I may feel it my duty to make on the statement which the right hon. Gentleman has just addressed to the House, or on the matters to which it relates, nothing will fall from my lips which shall tend in any degree to add to the difficulties which Her Majesty's Government and the other Powers concerned may have in the settlement of the negotiations to which the statement of the right hon. Gentleman refers. I am sure, Sir, everybody will agree that Her Majesty's Government acted from a proper sense of their duties, and from a due regard for the general interests of Europe, in undertaking that informal mediation between France and Austria to which the mission of Lord Cowley to Vienna related. I might, perhaps, think that if something more of a formal and official character had been given to that endeavour, and if Her Majesty's Government had obtained from the French Government and the Government of Austria some formal acceptance of the good offices of Great Britain and Prussia — if she would have joined Great Britain with a view to an arrangement with the different States perhaps that course of negotiation would not have been interrupted by any other proceeding, and might have tended to a successful issue. I do not blame Russia for having interposed her proposal of a Congress. It was natural enough that, with the best intentions, a great Power like Russia should desire that in the set-
 1874 1875 1876 1877 1878 1879
 THE LORD CHANCELLOR  said:
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : A Council will be held on Saturday morning. We have advised Her Majesty to dissolve Parliament on that day, so that the Writs may go out on that evening.
 MR. T. S. DUNCOMBE : Sir, seeing Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer in his place, I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman a question. We know that we are summoned here to-day for the Prorogation of Parliament. I wish to ask when the dissolution will actually take place—when the notification of it will appear in the  Gazette,
 COLONEL JOHN WILSON PATTEN , addressing himself to the Clerk (who, standing up pointed to him, and then sat down) said, Sir Denis Le Merchant, I hope it will not be considered an act of presumption on my part if I propose to the House for election one of its Members to fill the distinguished office of its Speaker. Sir, if any of the political parties of which the House of Commons is composed had an intention of naming any one a candidate for that office, I should abandon the duty I now undertake to perform to some hon. Gentleman more practised in the political discussions of the House, who would have discharged the duty with more propriety than myself. But understanding that no such intention exists on the part of any section of the House—believing, on the contrary, that an agreeable unanimity will be found to prevail on both sides in regard to the object of my Motion—I do not hesitate to comply with what I believe is the general feeling of the Members of this House. I therefore rise, Sir, to propose that my right hon. Friend the Member for North Nottinghamshire, Mr. Evelyn Denison, do take the chair and again preside over us. My right hon. Friend has already performed the duties of Speaker of this House, and his general conduct in the Chair will be his best recommendation for re-election. But I may,
 5 6
 SIR FRANCIS THORNHILLBARING  said, I rise to second the proposition of my hon. Friend the Member for North Lancashire. My hon. Friend has put the subject in so proper a light, and expressed himself so appropriately on the merits of my right hon. Friend the Member for North Nottinghamshire, that, as far as I am personally concerned, I should have been glad to have left the matter entirely in his hands, and have stopped here. But it would hardly be respectful to the House, nor would it be paying a proper regard to the Gentleman my hon. Friend has proposed, not to add a few sentences to what he has addressed to you. Sir, the selection of a Speaker is one of no common importance, not only on the present but on every occasion. To choose out of the assembled Commons of England the man who is to preside in our debates and exercise authority over us is at any time a choice of no ordinary moment; but we are likely to have to discuss questions of no common importance—questions likely to create considerable excitement—and though we are in the habit, as much to the advantage of the country as to the credit of the House, of carrying on our party conflicts in a tone and temper not partaking of personal acrimony, yet it is an advantage to have in that Chair a gentleman of high honour, experience, and firmness, who may vindicate the authority he exercises over the House by the personal respect we bear him as well as by the deference we owe to the office he holds. Now, I believe the right hon. Member for North Nottinghamshire will fulfil these requirements. We have to appeal to the manner in which he has already performed the duty—for no long period, indeed, but sufficiently long to prove his ability. My hon. Friend the Member for North Lancashire has spoken of the manner in which the right hon. Gentleman has performed his duties in connection with that branch of his business which does not attract so much attention as it deserves—the private business of the House; but with regard to it no Member of the House is better able to state what has been the conduct of Mr. Denison than the hon. Member by whom he is proposed; for it is a part of the busi-
 7
 Mr. EVELYN DENISON  stood up in his place and said;—I offer my grateful thanks to the two Gentlemen who have presented my name to the House, in terms suggested certainly by the partiality of friendship rather than by any deserts of mine. I must be the first to declare how little worthy I am of much that has been said in my commendation. I thought it a great honour when two years ago, the House was pleased to call me to that chair, untried, little prepared for its duties, and as little expecting to be called upon to perform them. I think it a much greater honour now, after a trial, to have been approved, and to be so proposed and so seconded, and, may I add?—so accepted as has been my lot this day. My short experience of the duties of the office has made me painfully aware of many deficiencies and shortcomings on my part; but on one point, the desire to perform my duties with impartiality; and the part which both sides of the House have taken in my nomination this day, I trust, afford
 8
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, it is now my very grateful duty to congratulate you on having obtained, subject to the sanction of Her Majesty, an honour which I think ought to satisfy the noblest ambition—the privilege of presiding over the proceedings of the most ancient, most powerful, and most celebrated of representative assemblies. You, Sir, have had some experience in that Chair; and that justifies our expec-
 9
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I trust the House will permit me to join with the right hon. Gentleman opposite in congratulating you, Sir, upon having been placed this day in one of the most honourable and distinguished positions in which it is possible for a member of the community of this great nation to find himself. It must be most gratifying to you that you have been the unanimous choice of one of the noblest assemblies that ever existed in the world, and I think I may say of one that is not likely ever to be surpassed, to preside over their deliberations, to moderate their proceedings, to be their organ in times of difficulty, and the champion of their rights if they should be attacked. I am persuaded, with the right hon. Gentleman opposite, that, judging from the able manner in which you in the last Parliament performed the duties which were then devolved upon you, no man who has joined in this arrangement will ever have reason to repent his vote; but that, on the contrary, the impartiality which you have on all occasions evinced will be continued in your future duties, and that every succeeding Session will prove the propriety of the choice which the House has this day made in your person. I am sure that the right hon. Gentleman was not answering for the House more than he was authorized to do when he assured you that every Member of this House will give you his most hearty and cordial support in maintaining the order of our proceedings while performing those important duties which devolve upon the person who fills that Chair.
 COLONEL FRENCH  remarked that it was always the custom of the House to adjourn over the Derby day.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The public service will be consulted if the House will meet to-morrow, but if the gallant Officer has any engagements in another place, I believe there will be no difficulty to prevent the fulfilment of them.
 MR. HADFIELD : At what hour is the House to meet to-morrow?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : At two o'clock.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I apprehend that it will remove all uneasiness if I state that the purpose for which the House will meet to-morrow is simply that you, Sir, may go to the House of Lords to receive the sanction of the Crown. No addresses will be delivered, and nothing beyond the swearing of those Members who may happen to be present will take place.
 MR. SPEAKER  said,—I have to report to the House that the House has been in the House of Peers; where Her Majesty was pleased, by Her Commissioners, to approve the choice which the House has made of me to be your Speaker; and I have in your name and on your behalf by humble Petition to Her Majesty, laid claim to all your ancient and undoubted rights and privileges, particularly to freedom from arrests and all molestations of your Per- sons and Servants; to freedom of Speech in Debate; to free access to Her Majesty whenever occasion shall require; and that the most favourable construction should be put upon all your proceedings; which Her Majesty, by Her said Commissioners, was pleased to confirm to them in as full and ample a manner as they have been heretofore granted or allowed by Her Majesty or any of Her Royal Predecessors. I beg once more to repeat my grateful and respectful acknowledgments to the House, and to remind the House that now their first duty is to take the oath.
 Mr. SPEAKER  then took and subscribed the Oath, first alone; and after him several other Members took and subscribed the Oath; and several Members professing the Roman Catholic Religion took and subscribed the Roman Catholic Oath; and one Member, having been one of the people called Quakers, and entertaining conscientious objections to the taking of an
 13
 MR. FITZROY  said, that he had no doubt the hon. Gentleman said "No" on the Question; but he did not challenge the decision of the Speaker, when he declared that the Ayes had it.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I hope the hon. Gentleman will not think that I am wanting in respect towards him if I do not reply in detail to the observations which he has just addressed to the House. I have great respect for the conscientious convictions of the hon. Gentleman with regard to this and other similar questions; but this matter has been so much debated in former Parliaments, and so far as the House of Commons is concerned, has been so clearly decided, that I think it unnecessary to enter upon any further discussion of it.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I now beg to move, in accordance with the Act of Parliament,—
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I now propose the subsequent Resolution, which is in these terms:—
 That any Person professing the Jewish Religion may henceforth, in taking the Oath prescribed in an Act passed in the twenty-second year of Her Majesty to entitle him to sit and vote in this House, omit the words" and I make this declaration upon the true faith of a Christian."
 MR. NEWDEGATE : Mr. Speaker, the House is now proceeding in accordance with the Act of the 21 & 22  Vict. 16 17 18
 MR. NEWDEGATE  rose and said: Sir, I beg to observe that I said "No," in the most distinct manner—that "the Noes have it."
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, I extremely regret, Sir, to have to protest against any decision of yours; but having consulted with several Members on these benches, as well as with my hon. Colleague, I am distinctly of opinion that we did give you adequate notice that we did intend to di-
 20
 MR. NEWDEGATE  repeated that he said No" at the proper time as audibly as he could, and that his hon. Colleague had also said it.
 MR. WHITMORE  said, that he was sitting below the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate), and he certainly did not bear him question the decision of the Speaker.
 MR. SPEAKER : In reply to what has fallen from the hon. Member, I can only regret that any decision of mine should be open in any way to question. My decision was given in the presence of the House and of a large attendance of Members; and I can only regret, if the hon. Member intended to question my decision or the way in which it was given, that he did not do so in a sufficiently audible and distinct manner, which would have left no doubt either on my own mind or on the minds of the great majority of Members who were then present.
 MR. SPEAKER : I put the Question in the usual form, and certainly without precipitation, and I heard no negation. I am in the judgment of the House, whether when I for the second time declared that "the Ayes have it," any Gentleman in a manner sufficiently audible questioned that decision. I certainly heard none, and therefore I declared that the Ayes had it.
 MR. SPEAKER  having put the question, there were numerous cries of "Aye," "Aye;" and some "Noes;" whereon Mr. Speaker declared "The Ayes have it." But cries of "No" being repeated, Mr. SPEAKER again put the question, and again pronounced "The Ayes have it." Whereon the Question being resolved in the affirmative, and the Resolution agreed to, Baron Lionel Nathan de Rothschild again advanced to the table to take the oath. But,
 MR. SPOONER  said, that both he and his colleague certainly said "No," but he supposed the right hon. Gentleman did not hear it. Some other Gentleman who sat near him also said "No."
 SIR G. GREY  said, that he listened attentively, and he was of opinion that no 'Gentlemen said "No" audibly; and therefore Mr. Speaker was fully justified in declaring that the Ayes had it.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  seconded the Motion.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : Sir, I feel that I owe some apology to the. House for intruding myself upon its notice on an occasion so important as the present. My excuse must be that I act upon the advice and with the sanction of Members of this House older and far more experienced than myself who have told me that my position as a member for a large division of a county—a constituency from which I believe I have never concealed the strong views which I entertain upon the questions which we are to discuss to-night—gives me some claim to assume a position to which otherwise my Parliamentary career would not enable me to aspire. Sir, in moving an Amendment to the Address on this occasion, I am not acting without a precedent. In the year 1841, the Government of Lord Melbourne, having been defeated by an exceedingly small majority, dissolved parliament and appealed to the country on the ground of confidence, and on the first night of the first Session of the new Parliament an Amendment was moved to the Address by Mr. Stuart Wortley, with the sanction of Sir Robert Peel. That Amendment was an addition to the Address, expressing the opinion that Her Majesty's then Ministers did not possess the confidence of the House of Commons. It is, Sir, to an Amendment of a similar character that I am now going to ask the House to give its consent. Sir, whilst the Ministry of that day combated that Motion by a reference
 111 112 113 114 115 Cries of 116 Cries of 117 118 "But we beg humbly to submit to Her Majesty, that it is essential for securing satisfactory results to our deliberations, and for facilitating the discharge of Her Majesty's high functions, that Her Majesty's Government should possess the confidence of this House and of the Country; and we deem it our duty respectfully to represent to Her Majesty that such confidence is not reposed in the present Advisers of Her Majesty."
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  said, the question now at issue was not the duty on Irish spirits, the merits of the west coast of Ireland, the distance between Cork or Galway and Liverpool, or the subsidies of rival lines of steamers. He had heard with considerable surprise the introduction of such topics as these, and he must protest against the course which the hon. Member for Devonport (Mr. Wilson) had adopted in occupying the time of the House with such paltry details. Were they or were they not at that moment deciding the fate of a powerful Ministry, and- about to give judgment on an issue which effected he dearest interests of the country? He (Mr. Digby Seymour) was an independent Member of that House. [ Laughter and cheers. onus probandi 169 "One morn a Peri at the gate Of Eden stood, disconsolate." 170
 MR. SERJEANT DEASY  said he would move the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. A. F. EGERTON : I rise, Sir, to move that an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty in answer to the gracious Speech which the House has just heard, and in doing so I stand greatly in need of that indulgence which the House always extends to those who address it for the first time. Not only is this the first time I have had the honour of addressing this House, but it is the first occasion on which I ever assisted at a debate. The state of Europe is now very different from what it was when the dissolution of Parliament took place. At that time every effort was being made to preserve that peace which has since been broken, and war is now, as the House is too well aware, unfortunately raging in one of the most fertile portions of Europe. I believe that in accordance with the words that have fallen from Her Majesty, Her Majesty's Ministers have endeavoured to preserve that peace, and they have been assisted in those endeavours by one of the ablest diplomatists of the
 99 100 101 Si vis pacem, para bellum; 102 103 reconnaisance en force. 104
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN 
 153 154 155 156
 MR. WILSON  said, he had thought it only due to right hon. and hon. Gentlemen opposite to pause a while to see if any of the supporters of the Government felt disposed to address the House, but it was clear that however large the numbers of hon. Members opposite might be, very few felt disposed to support the Ministry by their voice. He had missed especially from this discussion one hon. and learned Gentleman of great eloquence and ability—he meant the Solicitor General—who usually appeared on the first night of a debate to advocate the case of the Government, and stigmatize their opponents by some epithet—now a cabal and then a dodge; and he thought some such epithet would not be inapplicable to the proceedings of the Ministers that evening. It was quite unnecessary for him (Mr. Wilson) to justify the Amendment, for the Chancellor of the Exchequer admitted that the Motion of the noble Marquess was not only fair, but, under the circumstances, he almost went so far as to say, necessary. He did not see how the House could have done its duty, having
 159 160 sine qua non, 161 162 163 164 Cries of 165 "I have the satisfaction of informing the noble Lord and the House that we have received communications which give us reason to believe that ere long the Roman States will be evacuated by the French and Austrian troops, and that with the concurrence of the Papal Government. Under these circumstances, Lord Cowley, who enjoys the entire confidence of Her Majesty's Government, has repaired to Vienna in a confidential capacity. The House will not press, nor expect me to enter into any details as to the precise character of his mission, or the nature of the instructions which Her Majesty has been pleased to give to her envoy. Enough for me to say that it is a mission of peace and conciliation."—[3  Hansard, 166 "War once broken out in Italy, it is hopeless to imagine that it will be confined within the compass of that peninsula. Other passions will be aroused, other conflicting nationalities will arise, and other nations be called on to interfere in the conflict; and war once originated in Italy would at no distant period extend throughout its centre and to its frontiers, and wrap the whole of Europe in one general conflagration. It would not, my Lords, be difficult to trace the steps, nor would it be wise to do so, by which such an extension would necessarily come; but I will only say that even for this country it would be impossible to look with total indifference at any alteration of the occupation of the shores of the Adriatic. Our interest and power on the waters of the Mediterranean, and the possible consequences of any such catastrophe are such as would require the most careful vigilance and the most earnest attention on our part to guard against any possible contingency from the side of any Power whatever."—[3  Hansard, 167 168
 MR. SPEAKER  reported, That the House had this day attended HER MAJESTY in the House of Peers, when HER MAJESTY was pleased to make a most gracious Speech from the Throne to both Houses of Parliament, of which Mr. Speaker said he had, for greater accuracy, obtained a copy: which he read to the House.
 MR. MELLOR  said, he thought it was absolutely necessary, under the circumstances under which the new Parliament had met, to recall to the recollection of the House the state of things which preceded, and in fact led to the dissolution. The question of peace or war in Europe was then trembling in the balance, and yet because the House would not go into Committee on a Bill which no one had been found to defend, the Parliament was dissolved, and an appeal was made to the country. Now, almost the first paragraph in Her Majesty's Speech expressed Her Majesty's satisfaction at being able to seek the advice of her Parliament in the present critical state of European affairs. He could not help thinking that if the advice of Parliament was necessary at any time, it was at the time when it was dissolved, for no thing had occurred since which was not then foreseen. Now, however, that they were again assembled it became a question what course the House ought to adopt. For his own part, he thought there was no other line open to those who occupied the Opposition side of the House but to deliver the verdict of the country against the Government. He had come fresh from the hust-
 152
 MR. HANBURY  said, that he rose with much pleasure to second the Amendment which had been so ably proposed by the noble Marquess the Member for North Lancashire. In doing so, he must venture to observe that he was not actuated by any feeling of personal vanity in assuming the prominent position which he then occupied. He rose with feelings of diffidence to perform the important duty he had undertaken, but with feelings of confidence in the goodness and justice of the cause. He thought that the challenge thrown out by the Ministry at the close of last Session in the Speech from the Throne ought to be taken up, and that the question at issue—whether the Ministers possessed the confidence of the majority of the country, had been fairly and properly raised. He believed that the constituency which he had the honour to represent had answered the question, by not opposing the return of his hon. Colleague and himself. He said by not opposing their return, because in substance they were unopposed, although there was the shadow of an opposition at the last moment by a gentleman who appeared to have no very distinct political opinions, but whose personal qualifications might be
 119 120 attachés. 121 122
 MR. LAING  said, that when he had formerly the honour of a seat in that House he had ranked with independent Liberals, although he had never considered himself much of a party man; indeed, he sacrificed his seat in the last Parliament because he had felt it his duty to vote contrary to the leaders of his party. Having now been reelected as a Liberal he had considered the question referred to by the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Digby Seymour), and he had come to a completely opposite conclusion to that at which he seemed to have arrived. There were two great questions—Reform and our foreign policy—which they had to consider in dealing with the subject before them. As regarded Reform, he believed the conclusion which the country had arrived at was, that the Bill brought in by the Government was one which could not be accepted. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had told them that night that they were ready to consider the question of the borough franchise. If so, why was Parliament dissolved? The borough franchise was not a now question, it had long been before the country—two of the right hon. Gentleman's own colleagues, who had left the Government, were willing to extend the franchise in boroughs, and yet it was only now that they were informed the Government were ready to consider the subject. As he had said, he was not much of a party man, and wished he could sec good reason for not disturbing the Gentlemen on the other side; but he must say, he did not feel it to be consistent with personal honour to call himself a Liberal, and sit on the Liberal side of the House, and yet oppose the great party to which he nominally belonged. And he could not but remember that it was the old leader of the Liberal party, the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, who had saved the country from having the question of Reform closed upon that inadequate basis to which he had alluded. As for foreign policy, his convictions were strongly in favour
 171
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Mr. Speaker, I find no fault with the course taken by the noble Lord and his friends. I think it one convenient for the public service, and advantageous to the country, especially in the state in which we at present find it. I think it of great advantage that we should know whether the advisers of Her Majesty possess the confidence of Parliament, and I think that we have given satisfactory evidence of the sincerity of this opinion by advising Her Majesty to dissolve the late Parliament. But I would observe, in passing, that when the noble Lord talks of the precedent of 1841 as being identical with the position and conduct of the present Ministry, he will, on examination and reflection, find a very considerable difference between the two cases. It is true the Earl of Derby, from a sense of duty, advised Her Majesty to dissolve the Late Parliament, it having been assembled under the influence of his predecessors and opponents, and he, as is well known, counting in it but a comparatively small number of supporters. But what was the conduct of the Ministry that dissolved the Parliament of 1841? They dissolved a Parliament that had been elected under their own influence; they dissolved a Parliament composed mainly of their own friends, and the Resolution Sir Robert Peel felt it his duty should be moved by way of Amendment on the meeting of the new Parliament was authorized by very different circumstances from those at present existing, and certainly met a very different fate to that which, I think, awaits the Amendment moved by the noble Lord. Why, Sir, it was made a just reproach to the Ministry of Lord Melbourne,
 123 124 125 apropos 126 127 128 ad invidiam 129 130 131 132 133 134 135 136 137 138 139 140 141 142 143 144 145 146
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that after what had occurred it would be useless to oppose the adjournment. It would be better to adjourn until Thursday.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, he did not rise to speak in favour of the Amendment or against it. He should leave that to hon. Gentlemen on the Opposition side of the House who wished to get into office, and to the Government who wished to prevent them. He was about to speak of something far more important than squabbles between parties—the defences of the country. He was very happy to find from the speech of Her Gracious Majesty that it was intended very much to increase our naval force, and that the Government intended to put into execution the recommendations of the Commissioners with regard to manning the Navy. When the present Government came into office they certainly had much to complain of, for their predecessors had reduced the navy almost to a nonentity. He must therefore give them every credit for putting the navy into a better state, but at the same time he thought they had been a long while about it. It was not for want of warning that they put the navy into an efficient state immediately they acceded to office. The First Lord of the Admiralty had admitted that he received three warnings from the Surveyor of the Navy before he be began to stir, and he believed Sir W. Symonds had given a further warning before the right hon. Gentleman began to move. If the right hon. Gentleman had begun to reconstruct the navy when he first came into office, it would be in a far better state of preparation than it was now. It was pretty well understood that something against England was brewing between France and Russia, and although we had ten sail of the line in the Mediterranean tolerably well manned, and ten sail of the line now at home, and two more were commissioned the other day, yet the latter were very imperfectly manned. The Government had wisely issued a proclamation offering;£10 bounty to able seamen, £5 to ordinary seamen, and £2 to landsmen, but the men had not come forward in the manner which had been expected. He had been willing to make an allowance for the late prevalence of the easterly gales, which had prevented the ships coming up Channel; but sufficient time had now elapsed to ascertain the effect of the proclamation. Having been told there were no seamen in London, he
 157 158
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE : Sir, I rise for the purpose of seconding the Motion which has been so ably proposed by the hon. Gentleman who has just spoken; but he has travelled so completely over the ground that he has left little for me to do. It is customary, I am aware, on these occasions, however, for the Seconder as well as the Mover of the Address to touch upon the points which have been presented to the House in Her Majesty's Speech, and I have, therefore, to ask the House to extend to me its indulgence whilst I take the liberty of doing so now. Sir, war having unfortunately broken out in a part of Europe, it has become necessary for this country to assume a distinct and precise position with regard to the existing state of affairs on the Continent. The papers connected with those events will, I believe, be laid upon the table of the House, but until such time as that is done, and we are in possession of the circumstances which have led to this extraordinary position of affairs, it will be impossible to enter into a discussion of the details. At the same time, however, we may be permitted to suppose, from the fact that a nobleman of Lord Cowley's high standing, and one so completely in the confidence of both parties in this House, having been employed in the negotiations which took place, every means of maintaining peace had been exhausted, and every means of conciliation tried, before the Austrians at last rushed into war. Sir, the attitude which this country has assumed is that which, in my opinion, we ought to assume and maintain—that is, an attitude of the strictest neutrality. I feel confident that there is no hon. Gentleman in this House, on either side of it, who would not desire from the bottom of his heart to do everything in his power to ameliorate the condition of the inha-
 107 108 109 110
 VISCOUNT BURY  said, a grave responsibility rested at that moment upon the House. Her Majesty had been pleased to address them in a Speech, the terms of which, under ordinary circumstances, he should not, for one, have found fault with, and in the sentiments of which he could generally have concurred. It nevertheless derived great significance in consequence of the circumstances under which it was addressed to them, and it behoved them gravely and dispassionately to consider those circumstances. They ought to recollect the pledges which they had so recently given on the hustings throughout the country, and there was no reason why they should not give an independent assent to the Amendment rather than support the proposition of the mover and seconder of the Address. There was no charge against the Ministers of the Crown—there was no direct charge brought against them—but they must all remember the circumstances in which the country was now placed. A dissolution had taken place by the advice of the Government—at their instance—and
 147 148 149 "If war breaks out, whatever may be the consequences, our neutrality, as long as it may last, must be to a certain extent, an armed neutrality, enabling us to take our part on that side, whichever it may be, that the honour, the interests, and the dignity of this country may indicate as the best deserving of our support." 150 de facto de jure sine quâ non "The Government of Vienna is willing, and
 151
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : —Sir, I think if any man could entertain a doubt with respect to the Motion which my noble Friend has made, calling on the House to express their want of confidence in the Government, the course the debate has taken this evening would be the most conclusive proof of its justice. How can the House have confidence in a Government who have no confidence in themselves?
 172 "Si Pergama dextrâ Defendi possent, etiam hâc defensa fuissent." 173 174 175 176 177 178 179 180 181 182 183 184
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  seconded the Motion.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he did not rise to oppose the Motion on behalf of the Government; but, on behalf of the Printing Committee, he had to say that, in their opinion, there was no sufficient reason for putting the country to the expense of printing these papers, which were not wanted for a practical purpose. The papers were in the library, and were accessible to any hon. Member who might wish to have them copied or published.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, if he felt that the papers wore merely of historical interest, he should not have seconded the Motion; but it was alleged that they had been garbled and mutilated, and misrepresented the conduct of distinguished persons in India. It was, therefore, important that they should be printed, in order to ascertain whether they were in the same shape as when they reached this country.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  suggested, that before the expense of printing the papers was incurred, the hon. Member for Sheffield should examine them, and ascertain whether there was any ground for the allegation that they were garbled. Even if he should find that to be the case, the printing of extracts from them might answer the hon. Member's purpose.
 MR. HADFIELD  continued to press his Motion.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL : The Bills to which the hon. Gentleman refers are quite ready for introduction into the
 192
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he promised last Session to bring in a Bill relating to the law of landlord and tenant in Ireland as soon as the House had dealt with two Bills which he had introduced relative to judgments in Ireland, and to the management of estates by receivers appointed by the Irish Court of Chancery. It was his intention during the present Session to pursue the same course with regard to those Bills, and his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had promised to allow him to introduce the two Bills in question on the first Government night after that on which the financial statement should be made.
 MR. SERJEANT DEASY  said, he was sure he should not ask in vain for the kind indulgence of the House while he laid before them the reasons which he thought ought to influence them in adopting the Amendment which had been proposed by the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire in a speech which gave such great promise of future excellence. At the outset he must congratulate the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer upon the admirable state of discipline to which he had brought his Parliamentary forces. Composed as they were, in a great measure, of what might be called raw recruits recently raised in the country, he thought their obedience to the word of command was highly creditable to the right hon. Gentleman's powers of drill. There could not have been a better test of this than what occurred last Tuesday night, for, although there were upon the benches opposite, as experience in the Reform debate had shown, gentlemen representing counties—not dumb, bucolic animals, but gentlemen gifted with powers of addressing the House with great effect, and willing also to use those powers—yet such was the state of discipline of the party opposite, that, in obedience to the wishes of their leader, they all abstained most cautiously from giving expression to their opinions; and no taunts, no arguments, could induce those hon. Gentlemen to break the spell which had been thrown around them by the great enchanter. Now, however creditable to the rank and file of the minis-
 194 195 196 197 198 199 " Nullius addictus jurare in verba magistri," 200 201 Charles et Georges 202 " Opassi graviora; dabit Deus his quoque finem." 203
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, it was with no ordinary diffidence that he ventured to throw himself upon the indulgence of the House—a diffidence which arose from his total inexperience of Parliamentary usages. But he felt that he would be guilty of a reat neglect of duty if he allowed that inexperience to interfere with the expression of his conscientious opinions. It had been made matter of reproach to that, the Ministerial side of the House, that they had, on the former evening, allowed hon. Gentlemen on the other side to monopolize the whole of the discussion. They had been taunted with being unable, or unwilling, to explain their reasons for sitting on that side of the House. Though, as a new Member, he might be supposed not the best fitted to reply, and therefore might not feel himself individually bound to participate in the debate, he was unwilling to decline the challenge which had been thrown out. The frank admission of the noble Lord, who moved the Amendment, left no doubt that this was decidedly a party move. He had no wish to assume the authority to lay down any standard as to the principles which ought to characterize the debates of the House, but he felt that even a party move ought to have some grounds of sense and show of reason on which to found it. Now, he had watched the whole of this debate; and though the party opposite had had the sole occupation of the battle-field, he had not heard a single argument that went to prove the justice of the Motion. He would not allude to what took place in former Parliaments. It was not for him to defend the policy or the acts of Her Majesty's Ministers—it was not for him to defend men who were so much better able to defend themselves; but he must be allowed to express the belief that the dissolution of Parliament was the only constitutional course which, under the circumstances they could have pursued. He believed they had taken the straightforward line of policy in refusing to carry
 204 205
 MR. GRANT DUFF  said, that of the many weak points which the position of the Government presented, he would select only one—the extraordinary incapacity,
 206 Augsburg Gazette Augsburg Gazette The Times Augsburg Gazette Augsburg Gazette Cologne Gazette 207 The Times National Gazette "We must admit that, while no power beyond the limits of Germany has given us the smallest cause of offence, the behaviour of Austria and of some of the smaller German States is a tissue of indiscretions." status quo Kreuz Zeitung 208
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD : The noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston) made a complaint the other night that, as he said, we had left all the argument to the other side, and that it rested with the unsupported speech of my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer to vindicate the policy of the Government. It is true, that after the able speech of the noble Lord who moved the Amendment, the debate was continued principally from the opposite benches in somewhat desultory speeches; but I appeal to all who heard the debate of that evening whether, though the preponderance of numbers might rest with hon. Gentlemen opposite, victory and suc-
 209 210 211 212 213 "I have to say that a question so important in itself, and so mixed up with national feeling and with traditional policy as the question whether Austria shall or shall not retain a portion of her Italian possessions, has seldom been decided simply by negotiation and without an appeal to arms; and it seems now to have become inevitable that the fortune of war must, to a certain degree at least, determine the manner in which this question between Austria and the Italians is to be settled. The part which naturally belongs to the British Government in this matter is to remain spectator of events until invited by the contending parties to interpose by good offices with a view to an amicable arrangement." 214 215 216 "There is no constituted authority in Europe with which Lord Palmerston has not quarrelled; there is no insurrection that he has not betrayed. The ardent partisans of Sicilian, Italian, and Hungarian independence have certainly no especial cause for gratitude to a minister who gave them abundance of verbal encouragement and then abandoned them to their fate. On the other hand" [mark this] "when Lord Palmerston has made up his mind to court the good will of a foreign power no sacrifice of principle or of interest is too great for him." "From first to last his character has been the want of a firm and lofty adherence to the known interests of England, and it is precisely from a
 217
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, in the observations which, with the permission of the House, I shall address to it, I shall endeavour to confine myself strictly—or as strictly as one can do under the circumstances—to the grounds upon which I feel it my duty to support the Amendment which has been proposed. The hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has not, in my opinion, done very much to clear up the question before us. Admitting all he says to be true, it comes nearly to this—that he thinks the noble Member for Tiverton is about as bad as his own colleagues. I think that is nearly the whole effect of the hon. Gentleman's speech. Now, I am not about to defend the conduct of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, nor am I about to retract any single sentence that I have ever uttered with regard to him; but I
 218 219 220 221 Bigelow Papers 222 223 minimum 224 225 in extremis: 226 227 228 229 230 231 232 233 234
 LORD ASHLEY  said, that although he would frankly admit that the Amendment was a party move, so far as concerned one of its objects,—namely, the turning out the Government, he must at the same time deny that those who occupied those (the Opposition) benches were actuated by any motives of personal or political aggrandizement. Their sole object was to obtain a good Government for the people of this country, and to promote the country's welfare. He admitted that in many instances the conduct of the present Government merited the approval of the House, but he contended that generally speaking they had proved their incapacity. He would cordially support the Amendment with the view of replacing the present Government by a strong and sagacious Administration, that would carry weight in the councils of Europe, command the respect of the people in England, and have the wisdom to originate good and sound measures of social development and practical Reform.
 MR. PALK  said, that he should have contented himself with giving a silent vote against the Amendment but for the importance of the question at issue. The whole debate, in his opinion, had been nothing but a struggle between rival statesmen on the opposite sides of the House for place and power, and the only question of importance—namely, the real interests of the nation at large—had been completely forgotten. Hon. Gentlemen at the opposite side of the House boasted of their numerical majority, and that the differences formerly existing between them, which had prevented them from carrying those measures which they believed to be right and just, were now no longer in existence. In a tirade of vague pomposities the House has beard a great deal about the evils that should be remedied, the sacrifices that should be made, and the Government that ought to displace that at present in office; but they had not heard a word of definition with respect
 235 236 237
 MR. BAXTER  said, that as one of the Members who had joined in the vote on the Conspiracy Bill, which turned out the late Government, he should be the last man who would consent to a vote of want of confidence in the present ministry on light grounds, and, therefore, he was anxious to state his reasons for the vote he was about to give on the question now before the House. That question was, whether the domestic or foreign policy of the country had been such as to command the respect of the nation and justify the confidence of the House of Commons, and were the interests of the people safe in the keeping of the Ministry? Much as he admired the ability and tact of the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the exertions of the First Lord of the Admiralty and the Secretary for War, he could not bring his mind conscientiously to answer the question in the affirmative, and felt himself bound to support the Amendment. There were many reasons to justify him in coming to that decision. One was the legislative failures of the Government. Seldom had it fallen to the lot of any Government to mismanage and blunder to such an extent as the present Government had done during the last two Sessions. He considered that the Reform Bill of the Government would have been a reversal of the policy inaugurated in 1832, and that it was founded not on progressive, but rather on retrogressive principles, and so far from giving more power to the unrepresented classes, it would have simply and solely added to the influence of the territorial aristocracy. He so far  agreed 238 239
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he would not have addressed the House had he not detected in the speech of the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) some things which as an Englishman he was unwilling should pass without observation. If he understood rightly, the hon. Member rested the support which he gave to the vote of want of confidence on three material grounds, and the most important complaint against them was founded upon their foreign policy. In the succint and able summary of his opinions which the hon. Member for Birmingham gave at the conclusion of his speech, he said he hoped to see upon a change of Government something more of sympathy with Finance. He had a right to ask what the meaning of that was? He had a right to ask whether the hon. Member, whether as a man of peace, he meant that we should sympathise with a nation that had broken the peace of Europe in a most deliberate and reckless manner? He (Mr. Liddell) was as alive as anybody could be to the importance of the French alliance; and he believed that the moral
 240 241 prestige
 MR. J. H. GURNEY  said, that reference had been made in the course of the debate to the conspiracy Bill of last year—he had voted in favour of the first reading of that Bill, and being absent on the occasion of
 242 243
 MR. F. CROSSLEY  said, that like the hon. Member who had just sat down, he had always been against unnecessary changes of the Government, and therefore when the present Government came into office, and an appeal was made to the independent Members of the House for support, they required to know what the Go-
 244 245
 MR. SPOONER  said, he merely rose to answer the appeal made to him by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter). He was asked why he had not required an explanation of some supposed communications between Dr. Wiseman and the Earl of Derby. It was not for him to ask for explanations relative to a correspondence till he had ascertained the fact that such a correspondence existed. Had he seen ground for believing that such a communication had passed, then, doubtless, his Protestant feelings would have been aroused, and the explanation alluded to would have been demanded. But after the declaration made by his right hon. Friend the
 246
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he would confine the few observations he wished to offer to the Mouse to an explanation of the vote he was about to give, rather than enter upon, the question of the general policy of the Government, as to which he agreed with the Chancellor of the Exchequer that the issue had been so narrowed as to leave little room for argument. The appeal made to the country by Lord Derby was so simple and intelligible—namely, whether he and his colleagues possessed the confidence of Parliament and ought to have its continued support—that they did not complain, and no one could be surprised, to find a very early opportunity taken for testing the result of that appeal. Ministers, it was believed, were now in a minority in their own Parliament; and if this were true it was a condition of things which was anomalous, unconstitutional, and for many reasons too dangerous to be allowed to continue. The party possessing a majority in the House of Commons must be held to represent the national opinion. This being so, it was responsible for the national-
 247 248 249 250 251
 MR. H. KER SEYMER  said, that while he intended to vote against the Amendment, he felt constrained to repeat, what had been already admitted, that there could be no ground of complaint against the noble Marquess for moving it. The Government had appealed to the country; and by the result of that appeal they were determined to abide. He did not, in fact, see how they could possibly have taken the course suggested by the right hon. Gentleman who had last spoken. On a general question of confidence, or want of confidence, how could the Government select one special point—as for instance, their foreign policy—and claim delay on account of the absence of the papers relating to it? With due deference to the right hon. Gentleman who seemed to have been looking out for an opportunity of supporting Her Majesty's Government, without being able to find it, he said that such would not be an honourable course. The question of confidence or no confidence was not abstract but practical; and he could well conceive that some
 252 253 254 "The noble Lord adopted the unusual course, not of meeting the proposal of the Government with a direct negative, but of attempting to impose upon the Government the obligation of bringing in a Bill which was different from that which they had prepared."—[3  Hansard mutatis mutandis 255 256 d d "I would say now what I said in the House of Commons, that I think there ought to be a lowering of the county franchise; that there ought to be also a lowering of the borough franchise; that there ought to be some transfer of seats from small places to large." ["Hear, hear."] "This, however," (continued the noble Lord), "I will say, without meaning offence to any man, and I hope that no one will take it in that light, that I would not propose to make the borough franchise so low as to swamp, by numbers of men not possessed of property and intelligence those to whom the franchise is now entrusted, and who in my opinion have exercised it with honour to themselves and advantage to the country." 257
 MR. BRIGHT : If the hon. Gentleman would look at the speech which he had made at Glasgow he would find that the
 258
 MR. KER SEYMER  really did not know what the hon. Gentleman had said at Glasgow; all he knew was what the hon. Gentleman said at Manchester. The hon. Gentleman might have qualified his statement at Glasgow, but he had certainly quoted correctly the revised edition of his speech at Manchester, and it was important that the country should know how far Gentlemen who were apparently about to act in concert agreed in the opinions of the hon. Member for Birmingham which he certainly did not intend should be dormant, but which he certainly would act upon. But whilst the Liberals had these difficulties ahead on the subject of Parliamentary Reform, he did not see clearly how they were to deal with the question of church rates. The noble Lord the Member for London objected to Mr. Walpole's measure upon the ground that it gave up the principle of an Established Church; but the sternest opponents of church rates objected to them on the ground of opposition to an Established Church. The Liberation Society had just held a meeting in London, and they said that they wished to liberate the Church from State control, and that they considered the abolition of church rates as a step in that direction. On what principle, then, did Gentlemen opposite intend to deal with that question? Perhaps the two noble Lords might bring forward a measure such as was hinted at by the right hon. Member for Morpeth (Sir George Grey)—a moderate measure of compromise. If they did, no doubt they would receive support from this side of the House, as they would if they opposed the ballot. But what then became of the great "united Liberal party." Why, it would be the old story over again. These were questions upon which there would be irreconcilable differences, and the noble Lords would have to rely upon the support of the Conservatives against their own allies sitting below the gangway. Another question which would press for solution was the army and defences of the country. The hon. Member for Birmingham said, "Why should you arm;" and had laughed at the militia and the volunteer rifles. He had done so again tonight, and his special charge against the Government was, that they were putting the country under arms. But that was just the very point upon which he (Mr. Ker
 259
 MR. GILPIN  was sure the hon. Gentleman would not willingly misrepresent him. Perhaps the hon. Gentleman was not aware that after that statement of the noble Lord a letter was published by him (Mr. Gilpin) in the newspapers, declaring that he was not the author of the pamphlet to which the noble Lord had alluded, and that he had nothing move to do with its principles than the noble Lord himself. At the same time, too, the author of the pamphlet published a letter, with his name affixed, acknowledging the authorship, and that gentleman was a merchant in the City of London.
 MR. KER SEYMER  said, he did not wish to misrepresent the hon. Gentleman. He was merely quoting from the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton. The hon. Member for Birmingham had called the keeping up of large military and naval forces a system of large out door relief for the aristocracy. Did the hon. Member maintain that opinion still? If so, there was no doubt he would act on the conviction. How, then, could he be one of a "united party" with the noble Lord the
 260 261 Hinc illœ lachrymœ 262
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM :—Mr. Speaker, I do not rise to enhance the value of the reported speech of the noble Viscount the Member for Tiverton, much less to depreciate the value of the reported speeches of the hon. Member for Birmingham. I shall not now follow the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down into an historical sketch of the decline and fall, as he thinks, of the great Liberal party; neither shall I speculate upon the prophecies in which he has indulged as to its future policy. I find the question before us to-night to be this—Shall the Government which the hon. Member for Dorset supports continue in the possession of power with the consent of a majority of this House? That is the issue to be decided, and to that issue I will endeavour to address the few observations which I have to offer to the House. Now, Sir, I am placed in a somewhat painful position. I have been driven from the seat which, by the forbearance, or, indeed, grace of hon. Gentlemen opposite I have some time occupied in this House, and having been received upon these benches [ ironical cheers 263 laughter 264 "A Fact for the Licensed Victuallers and Beer-shop-keepers. The present Government have taken care that, from the 25th April instant, every person upon whom a soldier is liable to be billeted shall be paid four-pence per day, instead of three half-pence. At a moment like the present, when recruiting is going on to a much larger extent than usual, this been is one of great consequence, and evidences the desire which a good Conservative Government has to remove oppression and wrong wherever it may be discovered. Licensed victuallers and beershop-keepers will appreciate this boon, and understand well the difference between a Conservative four-pence and a Whig three halfpence." 265 266
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I rise to order. I shall be most happy if I am able to remove a painful impression from the right hon. Gentleman's mind. The right hon. Gentleman quoted a statement made in an anonymous paragraph. In his speech he referred to the statement as one he had received in that manner, and which he did not make upon his own authority, and that anonymous paragraph I characterized as an impudent fabrication. That paragraph was in my possession, was published and circulated in the newspapers before the speech of the right hon. Gentleman. I might have regretted that the right hon. Gentleman should have assumed, even provisionally, the truth of that paragraph; but I certainly never meant to characterize his statement in the terms which he has quoted.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : I really, Sir, am rather perplexed as to the course I should adopt with respect to the explanation now given by the right hon. Gentleman. He said that the statement was "an impudent fabrication." Well, Sir, in all my intercourse with that right hon. Gentleman, I am not aware that I have over said or done anything which could have given him reason to offer me personal offence. I could hardly believe that you, Sir, would have permitted the use of such an expression if it had been clearly applied to a Member of this House. I did not think that the rules of this House would have justified it; and certainly it was not for me to call the right hon. Gentleman to order.
 MR. SPEAKER : I think that, perhaps, if I state to the House the impression which the use of that phrase made upon my own mind it may help to terminate this rather painful discussion. The
 267
 SIR JAMBS GRAHAM : Certainly, Sir, what the right hon. Gentleman has said, confirmed by your high and unimpeachable authority, is some satisfaction to my wounded feelings. But the right non. Gentleman went on to remark upon the mild influences of age on me; though the right hon. Gentleman presents in his own person a contradiction to the Horatian maxim,—
 "Lenit albescens animos capillus; " "Nune ad te, et tua magna, Pater, consulta revertor." 268 spes altera Romœ 269 270 271 "In connection with the question of the supposed alliance between France and Russia, the Government of this country considered it their
 272
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD : I may be permitted to state that in one report of my speech the language which the right hon. Baronet has quoted is certainly attributed to me; but if the right hon. Gentleman refers to other journals he will find that the word "Europe" is simply a misprint for "England." The expression used in the answer received from Prince Gortschakoff was, "a hostile alliance against England."
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : I am glad to receive the explanation of the hon. Gentleman; but could anything prove more conclusively the inconvenience, to say the least, of having such important matters communicated to the public in an election speech, with imperfect means of reporting?—and what must be the opinion of Prince Gortschakoff when he hears that during an interregnum of nearly six weeks our Government were driven to the necessity of publishing the contents of important despatches from the hustings at an election? But the awkwardness does not end here, for I understand that the Chancellor of the Exchequer gave to his constituents at Aylesbury a somewhat different account of the Russian communication. The Undersecretary for Foreign Affairs did not deny that Prince Gortschakoff admitted there was a written engagement, but I think the Chancellor of the Exchequer said at Aylesbury that there was no written engagement.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : No treaty.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : No treaty—a written engagement as distinguished from a treaty. But if there be nothing hostile to England in this written engagement which is not a treaty, why has it not been communicated to England? Has it been so communicated? If it has not, that is a circumstance of the utmost gravity, capable of exciting serious apprehension, and showing how dangerous it was to disable the
 273 274 s "The danger and the merit of the National Guard consist in the excitement of hopes essentially different. Different classes in the community view a project of this kind from different points of view. All entertain their peculiar hopes, and all favour for the moment the establishment of a National Guard. The powerful organization of this body gave great satisfaction to those who were uneasy with respect to the independence and foreign influence of the nation." 275 "The friends of order hoped to find in the National Guard a force ready to maintain order, should the army fail from its weakness or disaffection. The Liberals flattered themselves that the National Guard being always available, a great standing army would no longer be necessary." "The democrats were delighted to see the great body of the people armed, and thus placed in a position to interfere with effect in the management of public affairs." 276 277 "For the exercise of the prerogative of dissolving, for the time, for the mode, for the occasion, for all the circumstances attending a dissolution, the advisers of the Crown will be responsible to a future Parliament. It is a desperate effort by means of agitation and excitement to prop up for a while a tottering Administration. There is a time when the measure of the iniquities of a Government is full. There is a time when if they refuse to listen to the voice of friendly warning or to attend to gentler hints, forbearance must end, and the plainest language must be spoken to them."—[3  Hansard
 MR. WHITESIDE :—Sir, the right hon. Baronet who has just spoken, with more than his usual ability and lucidity, has asserted—and I must say in a somewhat confident tone—that the Amendment of the noble Lord would be affirmed by the vote of the House. If, after a fair and impartial hearing the House is of opinion that the Amendment ought to be affirmed the decision will be one to be submitted to with cheerfulness and respect by Her Majesty's Administration. But before that decision is arrived at common justice requires that something should be heard on behalf of an Administration which the right hon. Gentleman, with all deference to him, has maligned. We were prepared for this Amendment, long before the noble Lord gave his notice, by the discussions that for some weeks before the meeting of Parliament took place in the press. I confess that I read those discussions with pain and humiliation. There was in them no exposition of principle; there was no statement of future luminous measures; there was no profound policy sketched out: but the burthen of all the articles of the Whig journals was this—will the noble Lord the Member for London agree with the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton? "Oh! happy day; oh! joyful hour "—the noble Lord the Member for London smiles on the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton.
 278 "The dawn is o'ercast, the morning lowers, And heavily in clouds brings on the day." 279 280 281 "Austria, at the moment the first onset was made, appealed to the noble Viscount and to Her Majesty's Government, in the midst of its difficulties, to mediate between her and Piedmont. But what was the  sine qua, non "Has the noble Viscount promoted the cause of Italian liberty by the course he has pursued? Piedmont was twice in one year at the mercy of the invading army of Austria. Rome is in possession of the French army. Lombardy is under the military rule of Austria. Venice was reconquered. And we cannot forget the daring exploits in Naples, which the noble Viscount was so anxious to uphold." 282 "Viva l' Indepenza d'Italia"? "Well, we got deeper and deeper in the mire of those arrangements, till, step by step, the noble Lord arrived at the conclusion that Sicily must be separated from Naples, and set up as an independent State. Sicily, with a population not exceeding that of this town, the only question with him being whether that State should be a republic or monarchy. We began by promoting constitutional reforms; we ended by promoting separate nationalities" 283 284 285 "Now, Government bethought themselves, at the instance of a valuable body of members in the west of Ireland, that it would be desirable to add to this communication a communication by Gal-way, at a cost of £70,000 a year. I say it would have been cheaper for the people of England to give the Government £100,000 capital to be expended in secret service money in buying up the Galway votes and debauching the voters rather than £70,000 under contract for seven years." 286 287 288
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I quoted from Mr. Fox, and I stated at the time that Mr. Fox had used it.
 MR. WHITESIDE : We have only been accustomed to it in Ireland in its original shape, and I am glad the noble Lord was so candid as to refer to the authority which he quoted. The noble Lord described the Roman Catholic religion in his celebrated letter, and so disposed of the Irish nation. It was said, that when Parliament created the £12 voting franchise in Ireland, the Conservative party would be destroyed; but the fact is, that it is stronger than it ever was. The right hon. Baronet talked of the Catholic combination, and said he had read in the speeches of the hon. Member for Dundalk (Mr. Bowyer) something about a charter, and that we had granted it.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : I said it was incredible that you should advise it.
 MR. WHITE SIDE : I understood the right hon. Baronet to insinuate that, coupled with the fact that I am member of a Protestant University, though it is not exclusively Protestant, and has not been for the last sixty years, I was to assent in some way to this charter which is to be granted hereafter to a Roman Catholic college in Dublin.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : I said just the reverse, that it was incredible you should advise such a charter.
 MR. WHITE SIDE : That is a mode of speech. When a man wishes to insinuate a thing, he says it is quite incredible. I will give a clear and satisfactory account of what happened on that subject. Twenty-five Irish Members of Parliament waited as a deputation upon the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as twenty-five Members waited upon him in reference to the land question, and they asked the Minister to be good enough to consider the subject of the charter. It was totally unconnected with the elections, and I believe occurred a month or two before the elections. Let me ask why
 289 290 291 "I call upon you not to condemn before you have heard, to receive at least the measures I shall propose, to amend them if they are defective, to extend them if they shall fall short of your expectations; but at least to give me the opportunity of presenting them, that you yourselves may consider and dispose of them." 292 "I have observed the noble Viscount's conduct ever since I had the honour of a seat in this House, and the noble Viscount will excuse me if I state the reason why I have often opposed him. The reason is, that the noble Viscount treats all these questions, and the House itself, with such a want of seriousness, that it has appeared to me that he has no serious, or sufficiently serious, conviction of the important business that so constantly cornea before this House. I judge the noble Viscount as a man who has experience, but who with experience has not gained wisdom; as a man who has age, but who with age has not the gravity of age, and who now, occupying the highest seat of power, has (and I say it with pain) not appeared affected with the due sense of the responsibility that belongs to that elevated position. We are now in the hands of these two noble Lords. They are the authors of the Russian war. It lies between them that peace was not made at Vienna upon some proper terms, and whatever disasters may be in store for this country, or for Europe, they will he at the doors of these noble Lords." "He (Mr. Bright) asks me to explain the meaning of 'the balance' of power. Now, the hon. Member for Manchester and I differ so much upon almost every question involving great principles, that I am afraid I shall be unable to gratify him by complying with his request to explain the meaning of the expression 'the balance of power.' The hon. Member, however, reduces everything to the question of pounds, shillings, and pence, and I verily believe that if this country were threatened with an immediate invasion likely to end in its conquest, the hon. Member would sit down, take a piece of paper, and would put on one side of the account the contributions which his Government would require from him for the defence of the liberty and independence of the country, and he would put on the other the probable contributions which the general of the invading army might levy upon Manchester; and if he found that on balancing the account it would be cheaper to be conquered than to be laid under contributions for defence, he would give his vote against going to war for the liberties and independence of the country, rather than bear his share in the expenditure which it would entail." 293 294
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT :—Whenever a poor man was subjected to a pecuniary penalty, it necessarily appeared to be a hardship, but he could not say that in the four eases which had been referred to by the hon. Gentleman there was anything improper in the conduct
 191 Charles
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  begged leave to call the attention of the Secretary of State for the Home Department to Return No. 192, for which he moved at the close of the last Session, relative to convictions and penalties inflicted on the Poor, under the Act 29  Chas. II. s d Laughter A laugh s d. s d s d. d Charles
 MR. SCULLY  asked the Solicitor General whether the Bill to simplify Title to Landed Estates, and the Bill to establish a Registry of Landed Estates, the progress of which was interrupted by the dissolution, are among those measures of legal and social improvement referred to in the Speech from the Throne, as intended on the part of the Government to be again brought under the consideration of the House during the present Session?
 MR. SCULLY  asked the Attorney General for Ireland when he will lay before the House his promised Bill or Bills to improve the law of Landlord and Tenant in Ireland, and to secure compensation for improvements to evicted tenants?
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that as the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down made reference to him (Mr. Lindsay), and the course he was about to take on the present occasion, perhaps the House would allow him to state the reasons which induced him as an earnest and advanced Reformer—as earnest a Reformer as his right hon. Friend—to take the course which he felt it his duty to take. He had always voted in favour of Reform—he had always voted for progress and for liberty, both civil and religious, and holding those opinions he conscientiously believed that by the vote he was about to give he should best perform his duty to the Liberal constituency by which he had been returned. That was his conscientious belief, and he was sure hon. Gentlemen would respect his motive when he said that it was a high sense of duty as a Reformer that induced him to vote against the Amendment to the Address. His right hon. Friend read a paragraph from  The, Times The Times "The matter before the country now is not one of an abstract character." 312 "It is plainly this, whether the present Ministry are to be removed from office without any defined accusation or any sufficient guarantee that their successors will introduce and maintain a policy more conducive to the interests of the country. Two questions claimed prominent attention—reform and peace. It is soon to be seen whether the Derby Administration have profited by their knowledge of a thorough determination on the part of the people to have a real and substantial measure of Reform, and if so, whether they will legislate for the nation rather than for party. They are certainly entitled to have the opportunity of showing whether such a change has taken place. A factious Amendment on the Address should not be countenanced by independent Liberals. As to the great question of peace, if Ministers prove by their acts that they are sincere in their declaration to maintain a strict neutrality, it would be most injudicious at this time to compel a change in the Administration. For these reasons we have no doubt that a large number of earnest and independent Liberals will act in accordance with the views represented by one of our own representatives, Mr. Lindsay, in the following communication." "This century has not produced a worse Government than that which we destroyed on the Conspiracy Bill, and I believe there are a few stern, honest, men in the House of Commons who have no interest but those of their country at heart, and who will resist to the utmost any attempt to reinstate the Whig party in power. If the present Government on the opening of Parliament say that they are prepared to advance with the growing intelligence of the people, and that they will introduce a Reform Bill which will disfranchise a number of the smaller boroughs, and grant to the others a considerable extension of the franchise, and that, further, they will take all the necessary steps to maintain an honest and an honourable neutrality, while prepared to defend the interests of England from attack, I think they need have no reason to dread any hostile conflict with the old Whig party, and all the force that party can bring to bear against them." 313 314 315 316 317 318
 MR. WHITESIDE : I did not say a word last night about the treaties of Vienna except that it was understood that those treaties were intended to exclude the French from Italy.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL : Sir, at the close of the third night of this debate it becomes my duty to endeavour to examine—with that conciseness which the importance of the subject renders possible, and which the hour of the night reminds me is expedient—the charges against the Government which this Amendment is intended to include, and the arguments by which those charges have been supported. The noble Lord (the Marquess of Hartington) who proposed the Amendment—and who whatever may be its issue, will have the satisfaction of knowing that there has
 396 "When I say this, I say it is with them as with all depositaries of power in this country, there should be reasons given for such a proceeding. As a Sovereign is not justified in appointing a Minister from mere caprice, so neither is the House of Commons justified by a mere conscious ness of power in setting aside appointments which have been made by the legitimate exercise of the prerogative of the Crown." 397 398 399 Cries of 400 401 402 403 404 "It is impossible," he said, "to come to any other conclusion than that the Government have taken the course which, acting upon the well known rules of what is understood to be the constitutional or Parliamentary practice of the country, they are bound to take. I entirely approve of the course which the right hon. Gentleman and his colleagues have taken. It is, I think, a wise course in the emergency with which they have to deal." 405 406 "With reference to the slave trade a question arose between the United States of America and England. The slave trade cannot be put down upon the high seas unless the flag supposed under suspicious circumstances to be carrying slaves is visited by the British cruisers. That right of visit has from the very commencement of our efforts to put down the slave trade been exercised upon the high seas; and what did this champion of the honour of England do? Why, in a single personal communication with the Minister of the United States, he remonstrating against this accustomed right of visit, it was renounced and abandoned by Lord Malmesbury; and this champion of the honour of England did on that occasion renounce a right, a maritime right, on the part of England which every Foreign Minister for the last thirty years has not hesitated to uphold. Now, so much for this champion of the honour of England in the person of Lord Malmesbury '." 407 408 The Moniteur, The Moniteur The Moniteur, 409 "The belief of the Government was, that if they could only frighten France from hostilities by holding it out to Europe that in the event of war breaking out they would be found acting on the side of Austria, peace would be preserved, and war would be avoided. I think," he added, "a threat to either side, that any contingency of war was to involve England as an active party in the contest was wrong and imprudent, the more especially when it was launched at a proud, warlike, and independent nation, who must have understood what was meant, and would doubtless have resented it."—[See  Hansard, 410 411 "That noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) supposes me to have said that I thought it the duty of England to maintain a posture of armed neutrality, in order that we might take the part of whichever of the belligerents we believed was in the right, and he adds that from the manifest partiality we have shown for Austria, there can be no doubt on which side we are prepared shortly to draw the sword. Now I take the liberty to say here, thus emphatically and publicly, that nothing could have been further from our view. What I did say was this,—That we intended to maintain a strict neutrality; but that when a million or more of men were in arms, when war was not only imminent, but in actual existence, and that moreover in Italy and on the shores of the Mediterranean, it was incumbent on and actually necessary for us, looking to the great interests we have involved there, looking to our great possessions, and the military position we occupy in that quarter, that we should be in such a state as to defend those possessions and preserve the British flag and British arms from the possibility of insult amid any of the contingencies that might arise. And I said this, not that we should maintain that armed neutrality for the purpose of joining this or the other of the parties with whoso quarrels there is nothing in our national interests or national honour that calls for our interference." 412 413 414 415 416
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  said, that this was not the first time they had been told that if there were to be a change of Government the sun of England would set for ever; but this country had existed and prospered through Liberal Administrations before, and he had no doubt that it would do so again. Hon. Gentlemen opposite said that throughout this debate there had been nothing for them to answer. He asked them, then, to give a good reason why the majority should sit upon the Opposition Benches while the Treasury Benches were occupied by the minority? The only hope that the Government had was in the dissensions of the Opposition, which they had been doing everything in their power to foment; but if the Ministerialists could agree, why also should not the Opposition? If they did, they were a majority, and according to constitutional precedent they ought to sit upon the other side of the House. If England ever sunk to be a third-rate Power, it could only be by forgetting her own constitutional precedents, and allowing a Government in an avowed minority to conduct her affairs. Turning to the foreign policy of the Government, there was a general feeling out of doors that the leaning of the present Government was towards Austria, and that there was some colour for that supposition. Austria was connected with the Pope and with the extreme section of the Roman Catholic Church. Why was the hon. Member for Dundalk (Mr. Bowyer) so enthusiastic in praise of the Government but because he thought that they were in favour of Austria and of that mediæval policy which she wished to see carried out in Italy? Why was it that the late King of Naples was in favour of them last year? And how was it that they boasted last year that they could settle the affair of the  Cagliria 342 343 coup d'état
 MR. LEATHAM : I rise, Sir, asking that indulgence which I have been informed is invariably granted the first time any Member seeks to address the House. I think that the hon. and gallant Member for Buckinghamshire has made a most un-
 352 s
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Sir, I think I shall represent the feelings of both sides of the House when I say that great gratitude is due to the hon. Gentleman (Captain Vernon) for the diversion which he offered us during the dull hours that usually elapse between seven and nine o'clock. I shall not think it my duty to follow him through the details which he gave us on the subject of the Cunard contract, or to expa-
 353 plausû sui gaudere theatri. 354 355 356 357 358
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : I suppose the right hon. and learned Gentleman is in accordance with his colleagues? [No!] Then if he is not in accordance with them, of course there is no difficulty. If he is in accordance with them, then I want to know what would happen if Mr. Whiteside, the author of the book on Italy in the nineteenth century," should meet the Irish Attorney General, and attempt to serve in the same Administration with him. The hon. Member for Horsham (Mr. Seymour FitzGerald) arguing in the same strain, attacked somebody for having said something about somebody else some years ago. And that is given as a conclusive reason why we ought to support the Earl of Derby. [Mr. S. FITZGERALD: I spoke of what had been said last year.] Well, that is nearer. But was not the Earl of Derby himself once juvenile and curly, with a great talent for invective and sarcasm? I have heard that noble Earl say things of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton more sharp and acrimonious than anything the right hon. and learned Gentleman has ever read in any Speech of mine. Does
 332 Hansard, 333 334 Laughter. 335
 MR. S. HERBERT : Sir, I am afraid that those persons in this House who take offence at the reconstruction of sections will have found some little comfort in the speech we have just heard. We are not quite unanimous. There is something still to be gained from divisions among the Liberals in this House. I had hoped that I might get through this discussion without the necessity of taking a part in it. I am not fond of discussions upon the merits, not of measures, but of men. Hon. Gentlemen opposite will, I trust, admit that never in our most heated controversies has a single word escaped from me implying any want of respect for the party to which they belong. I have spoken of their great qualities—I have frequently acknowledged them, and if in this case I have a com-plaint to make it is not directed against the party, but those who lead the party. Now, Sir, before the dissolution the Government challenged the House to an issue on confidence. To this House the Government said, before the dissolution, "We stand upon our merits. We, a minority, seek to carry on the Government with such
 319 320 "That no single Member of that House who may be unconnected with office will be by his vote pledged to one single provision of that measure." 321 "What then is the real object? To waste a year … His scheme of conduct is so devoid of all political principle that, when forced to appeal to the people, his only claim to their confidence is his name. Such arts and resources may suit the despotic ruler of a continental state, exhausted by revolutions, but they do not become a British Minister, governing a country, proud, free, and progressive, animated by glorious traditions, and aspiring to future excellence." "The question of the borough franchise must be dealt with, and it must be dealt with with reference to the introduction of the working classes. We admit that that has been the opinion of Parliament, and that it has been the opinion of the country, as shown by the gentlemen who have been returned to this House. We cannot be blind to that result. We do not wish to be blind to it. We have no prejudice against the proposition." 322 323 de minimis non curat lex, 324 325 "I cannot help saving that the measure which the Cabinet are prepared to recommend is one which we should all of us hare stoutly opposed if either Lord Palmerston or Lord John Russell had ventured to bring it forward." 326 327 bonâ fide 328 329 330 331
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I must say that the language which the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has applied to those who sit on this side of the House is, considering the circumstances in which he stands, a little extraordinary. The Ministers advised Her Majesty to dissolve Parliament, at a critical moment, and in the midst of most important business, to try this question,—whether Her Majesty's Ministers have or have not the confidence of Parliament and the country. The Parliament is accordingly dissolved, the elections take place, Gentlemen are returned here; and they immediately propose to put to the test the question which the Government themselves declared was the point at issue. It was not, as has been observed, the most favourable ground for them to occupy; but the challenge having been thrown down to them they are ready to affirm that they have not confidence in Her Majesty's Ministers: whereupon the right hon. Gentleman calls us a faction. Why, what did the right hon. Gentleman expect? Did he mean that the whole country should give but one answer to the question put to it? Did he mean to say that their wisdom was so self-evident that nothing but faction could induce men to demur to it? He seems to me, Sir, to have a very high estimate of his own and his colleagues superior merits. Still, I should think, blind and mistaken as we may be, it may be permitted to this House—it may be permitted to the Members of what the right hon. Gentleman calls a triumphant faction, to take a different view from that which he has formed of the merits of Her Majesty's Government. The right hon. Gentleman talked of the charges which have been preferred against the Government. Now, I do not hold that it is necessary to make any charges whatever in order to establish the validity of this Amendment. I thought that point had been settled for ever in a few short words from Mr. Burke, when he said, "the House of Commons was not only a Court competent to criminate, but also a council of weight and wisdom to advise." If, therefore, this House be of opinion that in these critical times the destinies of the country are not fitly placed in the hands of Her Majesty's present Ministers, it is perfectly competent for us to declare that opinion. When Mr. Stuart Wortley in 1812 pro-
 375 376 377 378 379 380 Cagliari 381 Charles et Georges. 382 383 384 385 "If war breaks out, whatever may be the consequences, our neutrality, as long as it may last, must be to a certain extent an armed neutrality, enabling us to take our part on that side, whatever it may be, which the honour, the interests, and the dignity of the country may indicate as best deserving our support." 386 387 388 389 390
 MR. BENTINCK  said, the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had frankly and fairly admitted the justice of the sentence of ostracism which had been passed on the Peel party; and looking to the conduct of the Coalition Cabinet he (Mr. Bentinck) thought that sentence ought to be perpetual—and it was because one of the objects of this Amendment was to remove it that he should vote against it. They on that, (the Ministerial) side of the House, had been taunted by hon. Gentlemen on the other side with the silence during this debate of those who supported the measures of the Government—a silence which they said had been imposed upon them by the Government. He was not in the secrets of Her Majesty's Government, but he certainly was not aware that any effort had been made to restrain the oratorical powers of hon. Members on the Ministerial side of the House upon the first night of the debate, neither had he heard such a thing whispered in the lobby; and he would further say that had such an intimation been made to him he should have disregarded it. The fact of their having remained silent on the first night was to be explained—and he said it in no spirit of discourtesy to Gentlemen opposite—by the statement that they had heard nothing which called for a reply; and unless a person had come down with a speech ready cut and dried for the purpose, it was impossible to find anything in what had been said whereon to hang a speech on
 336 337 338 339 340 341
 MR. ROEBUCK : Mr. Speaker, as I intend, Sir, to oppose the Amendment, I hope the House will allow me a very few minutes to state the reasons on which I ground my decision. The House, Sir, has been treated during many nights of this debate with Gentlemen's descriptions of one another, and the conclusion to which I have come, Sir, is that neither party deserves a good character. But I have to determine on this occasion what I think the best to be done for my country. [ Cries of 391 Laughter. Cries of 392 393 394 Laughter. Cries of Laughter. Laughter. A laugh. 395
 CAPTAIN VERNON  said, he should not have risen whilst so many hon. Members were anxious to address the House, except
 344 345
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, I was inclined to abstain from asking the permission of the House to make any observations on the Motion which is now in your hands, but the allusions that have been made to myself by speakers during this debate, and the desire which, on the whole, I have to state my grounds for the course which I shall feel it my duty to take, have induced me to alter my former intention of not addressing the House. I am one of those who are seldom mixed up in what are called party conflicts, although I quite agree with the statement attributed I believe to the Earl of Derby, that great party divisions are inseparable from a free government, and I feel undoubtedly that there are great occasions when no Member taking any interest in political affairs can be silent, but when all are under the absolute necessity of declaring themselves for one side or the other. It would have been more agreeable for me, I must confess, if we had been called on to discuss some legislative measure, and argue on its merits; it would have been more agreeable to me if I had been called upon to discuss some practical act of the executive Government; but as the question actually before us is the rival claims of two great political parties in this country to political power, I shall not shrink from delivering my opinion on that most important question. I do not propose to imitate the tone of the right hon. and learned Member (Mr. Whiteside) who last addressed us in the debate. I should be incapable, even if I were so disposed, to give utterance to such fervid declamation; but I must say that he was rather unfair to this side of the House, when on the one hand he taunted us with what he was pleased to call our unhappy divisions and dissensions, and in the next moment accused us of a disposition to become again united. I think it is rather hard to please him, and that he ought to
 299 300 301 Times, "Mr. Lindsay addressed an immense meeting in Sunderland on Monday night. The Tories have been somewhat lavish in their expenditure, and it was broadly stated at the meeting that Mr. Hudson was being supplied from the Carlton Club." 302 303 "We learn with great satisfaction that the long struggle to vindicate the claims of the town as a military station has been brought to a successful issue. We derive this satisfactory information from a private letter which we had the privilege of reading, addressed from the highest authority to a gentleman who takes a deep interest in the question, and whose connection with Berwick will be of great advantage, should they assume the character we anticipate. We have reason to believe that the military authorities, fortified by the report of their surveyors, are about to make arrangements for the repair of the barracks, in order that they may be soon re-occupied by Her Majesty's troops." 304 The Berwick Warder 305 306 307 308 309 310 311
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER : How many able seamen?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I am not sure that I can say off-hand what is the exact number, but the proportion of able seamen is as nearly as possible 20 per cent. The right hon. Gentleman fell into a slight error last night. The bounty for landsmen is not, as he said, £3, but only £2; and I am happy to be able also to state, that those who have entered as landsmen, and those men of the second-class ordinaries when once they are on board, are men of the best description, the latter being either fishermen or boatmen, accustomed to the sea, though not men-of-war's men. I am glad to say that I have the best report of the crews of the new ships, and several officers have told me that, though they are now undisciplined and young crews, yet that they present the finest materials, and will make the very best men-of-war's complements. The gallant Admiral asked me the other night what is now our force? I tell him that our force at this moment is twenty-four line-of-battle ships and twelve frigates in commission. That force is divided between the Mediterranean and the Channel. We are about to increase the Mediterranean portion, but that does not affect the general statement. The gallant Admiral also asked whether our force of men-of-war in commission exceeded that of the French. I look rather to the positive than to the comparative force of England at this moment. I do not want to enter into any comparison with France, which is not the only naval Power that we have to consider. But I will not refuse to answer the gallant Admiral's inquiry, and I tell him our force of men-of-war in commission is now considerably greater than that of the French. Though our present force is twenty-four line-of-battle ships and twelve frigates, we do not intend to limit ourselves to those numbers. Let me now ask the hon. and gallant Admiral one plain question. What course is he about to take to-night? Is he
 373 374
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I think the manner in which a Government has dealt with the defences of the country ought fairly to enter into consideration in deciding the question whether that Government is or is not entitled to the confidence of the country. And if there was ever a time when that consideration ought to enter into a decision of that kind it is
 359 more suo 360 361 Opposition cheers 362 "Now, he wished to make the admission—to make it broadly and in a manner impossible to be misunderstood—that he held it to be necessary to provide for the spiritual instruction of all inmates of gaols; and he had already asserted that principle in the Juvenile Reformatory Act for the County of Middlesex. The provisions of that Bill, however, rested upon a very different basis from the grant now proposed. In providing spiritual instruction for the inmates of gaols the noble Lord must proceed upon one of two principles,—either he must appoint chaplains of the established religion of the country, and say, every unhappy person who becomes an inmate of a gaol becomes subject to the general law of the country,' and be spiritually instructed by the chaplain; or else he must take the most tolerant course, saying, 'although these unhappy people have entered here, I will do violence to no man's conscience, but will allow him to be instructed according to his peculiar religious opinions.' He wished it, therefore, to be well understood that he objected not to the amount proposed, but to the shape in which it was proposed. Were the vote brought forward in the shape suggested he would have no objection whatever to it, provided the money was distributed fairly among all classes requiring aid." [3  Hansard, 363 and cheers 364 365 Charles et Georges. Charles et Georges, Cagliari, 366 Great Laughter 367 368 369 Cheers from the Opposition 370 371 372
 MR. CORRY  replied that no such alteration was contemplated in the terms of the Proclamation as that referred to by the gallant Admiral. The only alteration would be that, whereas the existing Proclamation offered a bounty of £10 to able seamen, £5 to ordinary seamen, and £2 to landsmen, the Order in Council about to be issused would limit the payment of bounty to able and ordinary seamen only, and extend the period during which such bounty would be payable to the 31st of July.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL , said it was usual, immediately the Address had been read and agreed to, to fix an early day for taking Her Majesty's Speech into consideration. He moved, therefore, that Her Majesty's most gracious Speech be taken into consideration on Friday next.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, the Proclamation offering bounties to seamen entering the Royal Navy would ex-
 422
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  asked if the bounty of £10 given under the Proclamation would be extended to the sailors who had entered the service before it was issued, and who were equally well entitled to it?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it was usual to name a day for the Consideration of the Queen's Speech after the Report of the Address had been brought up and agreed to; but that had nothing to do with the adjournment itself. The Speech from the Throne need not be taken into consideration for several days after the House met. It was the duty of the Secretary of the Treasury to move the adjournment, and he had done so, he presumed, after consultation with the leader of the House.
 SIR HENRY LEEKE  said, the question of renewing the Proclamation had been considered by the Board yesterday, and he believed it would be renewed.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : No: after consultation with the noble Lord the Member for the City of London.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, the noble Lord, the Member for the City of London, had moved that the Queen's Speech be taken into consideration on Friday, and as the new writs could not be issued till the Tuesday following, there could be no object in meeting sooner than the day fixed upon.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : No; on the suggestion of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Was the adjournment till Friday made on the motion of Her Majesty's Government?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  asked to what day the Government proposed to adjourn the House?
 THE COMPTROLLER OF THE HOUSEHOLD  (Colonel Forester)  reported
 LORD STANLEY  replied, that the reports on Civil Establishments and Salaries had been received, but without any expressions of the views of the Indian Government. The subject had been taken into consideration by the Council of India here, and a communication had been addressed to the Government at Calcutta for their opinion as to the propriety of adopting the recommendations which the Report contained; but as yet no reply had been returned. He could scarcely in a few words give a reply to the second question. He might, however, state that a Bill had been submitted to the Legislative Council at Calcutta on the subject of Judicial Oaths, he was not aware with what result; but a despatch had been sent out on the 3rd May, fully expressing the views of the Government here.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  objected. Three times a Bill had been brought in to increase the salary of the late Mr. Serjeant Adams who held the office a long time, and was a most efficient Judge, and it was rejected; a very distinguished person succeeded that learned Judge, and he had never applied for an increase; and although he admitted the high talents of the learned Judge recently appointed (Mr. Bodkin) he did not think that any sufficient reason
 433
 MR. LOCKE KING  thought the Bill ought not to be proceeded with in the abeyance of the Government.
 MR. HARDY  observed that the Assistant Judge was often called upon to decide upon important questions connected with the poor law; and what could be more unseemly and inconvenient than that he should previously have given as a Barrister his opinion upon the points he had to determine as a Judge? It should be recollected that the practice which the Assistant Judge would have to surrender under the new arrangement was probably worth more than £1000 a year.
 MR. BYNG  begged to confirm this statement.
 MR. BOUVERIE  was in favour of the Bill, but thought that it ought not to be proceeded with in the absence of the new Government.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he saw no reason for postponing the measure.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he had consulted the legal advisers of the Treasury, and was assured there was no objection either in point of form or substance.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he thought the best way would be to adjourn the debate for a fortnight.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  appealed to the hon. and learned Gentleman to postpone the Bill until the new Government were present to express their opinion upon it.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I think, Sir, it is but respectful to the House that I should formally announce to them that of which, no doubt, every Gentleman present is already cognisant;—that in consequence of the vote which a week ago the House was pleased to arrive at, Lord Derby and his colleagues felt it their duty immediately to tender the resignation of their offices to Her Majesty, and that Her Majesty has been graciously pleased to accept the same. So that at the present moment they hold, and for some days past they have held, those offices only until their successors are appointed. The noble Lord the Member for Tiverton has received the commands of Her Majesty to form an Administration, and I believe he has accomplished the task. Under these circumstances, I feel that it will be for the convenience of the House—and also of the noble Lord—that I should move that the House at its rising adjourn until Tuesday next. I fix Tuesday because that is the last day on which election petitions can be received. Should any further adjournment be necessary those who succeed us will then have the opportunity of moving it.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  urged the inconvenience of proceeding with the Bill under the circumstances in which the House was placed with regard to the Government, and added that there was an objection in point of form. The Bill interfering with revenue ought to have emanated from a Committee of the whole House.
 MR. INGHAM , Chairman of the Committee to which the Bill had been referred, urged that the delay caused by the appointment of a Commission of this kind at this period would be practically fatal to the Bill. The evidence before the Committee was comprehensive and satisfactory, showing that the proposed line was calculated greatly to relieve the traffic of the streets, and the Admiralty and the Board of Trade had both expressed opinions in its favour on the ground of its tendency to distribute the traffic.
 MR. TITE , as one of the governors of St. Thomas's Hospital, objected to this plan, as interfering with that institution. The proposed line started from the South Eastern terminus, passed through the Borough, and crossed the river to a terminus at Hungerford Market. The line passed within eight feet of one of the wards of the hospital, on a level as high as the second floor of the building, and it was the deliberate opinion of the medical officers of
 435
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  suggested the impropriety of this Motion at this stage of the Bill. If the Motion had been made on the second reading there might have been some reason for it; but the Bill having passed through Committee, it ought not to be made on the third reading.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  then withdrew his Motion.
 COLONEL NORTH  urged that the Bill had passed through a full examination by a Committee of the House of Lords, and he thought it ought to be read a second time. He had been over the works of the company, and could assert, from his own knowledge, that nothing could be more admirable than the way in which the business was managed. He read testimonials from various scientific gentlemen to the
 436
 MR. CLIVE , without going into the merits of the Bill, suggested that the Amendment should be withdrawn, and the second reading be postponed for a fortnight until the responsible Members of the Government were in their places, for this, though a Private Bill, had reference to a department of the Government—the Board of Health.
 MR. W. JACKSON  said, that postponing the second reading for a fortnight would be fatal to the Bill. He objected to the Home Department constituting itself a Committee of that House.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  recommended that the Bill should be allowed to go before a Select Committee, where the sanitary question would be fully inquired into. If the result should be against the Bill, the House could of course reject the measure, even should it pass the Committee.
 MR. AYRTON  also supported the Motion, believing that inquiry was necessary, and not thereby pledging himself to support the Bill in any future stage.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he was sure that his hon. Friend would give him credit for an earnest desire that there should be an inquiry into the matters connected with the shipbuilding department of the Admiralty, and he was quite certain that the noble Duke who now presided over the Admiralty had it equally at heart that this great branch of our naval service should be throughly looked into. If he now asked permission to withdraw the Motion of which he had given notice it was not that he at all desired to shirk the ques-
 437
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the hon. and gallant Admiral could not make a speech unless he intended to conclude with a Motion.
 MR. SLANEY  called the attention of the House to the subject of public walks and places of exercise for the working classes near great towns. In whatever direction they went in the metropolis and other large towns they found the working classes compressed into narrow and close localities. This was in one sense a mark of our prosperity, but it was also a proof that we had forgotten our duty to those classes in not supplying them with spaces where they could have exercise and enjoy themselves after their work was done. He had moved for a Committee on this subject twenty-six years ago, and the fruit of that Committee's report was four new parks opened to the public in the metropolis. He had walked for miles over portions of this enormous city, and could not find a single spot of open ground on which the humble classes might exercise themselves. He did not ask for any Government grant, but only that facilities should be given to those who desired voluntarily to provide the funds necessary for setting apart public places of recreation. He thought also that care should be taken to preserve the footpaths on the roads in order to the safety of the public. This was a question that did not perhaps much interest the House, but it was one of deep interest to the people out of doors. In every large town the population was increasing to an enormous extent, and it was absolutely necessary for the public health that large open spaces, such as he had referred to, for air and exercise, should be provided. He would conclude by moving for leave to bring in a Bill of which the purpose was to facilitate the establishment of public walks and places of exercise for the working classes near great towns.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  called the attention of the House to what he deemed an irregularity on the part of the hon. Member in moving for leave to bring in a Bill when the notice put upon the
 440
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  thought that the gallant Admiral should have waited to hear the statements of the Government before urging upon them the expenditure of money. The hon. and gallant Admiral was always anxious to spend the public money, and he believed no party that would be in office would ever satisfy
 439
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, that he would conclude with a Motion for an adjournment of the House. He had heard that the Earl of Derby had that morning, at a meeting of his friends, stated that he understood from Mr. Gladstone, the new Chancellor of the Exchequer, that he was quite shocked at the expenditure of the country and that he was determined to reduce it. The Chancellor of the Exchequer might reduce the expenditure of the country as much as he thought proper, but he trusted that there would be no reduction of the defences of' the country. He gave the late Government great credit for what they had done towards putting our defences in a proper state and condition; though he did not think they had gone far enough. If they had done what he thought necessary for the defence of the country he could not have conscientiously voted against them, and he hoped that the Government which had just acceded to office would go much further than they had done. He trusted that they would persevere and that there would be no reduction of our fleets and armies, but that on the contrary they would be augmented. He was happy to see it stated in the papers that day, that the late Government
 438 The Times "The shipments of machinery to Russia since the opening of the navigation are stated to have been on a scale which will go far to account for the necessity that has existed for the transmission of gold from St. Petersburg to London, especially as similar orders have been executed in America and elsewhere, many of which are paid for by draughts on this country. Within the past month the  Hercules
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, it was his intention to postpone the Motion for a Select Committee to inquire into the state of the Admiralty of which he had given notice; and said that he had been made very uneasy by a statement which he had heard had that forenoon been made by the Earl of Derby.
 MR. BRAND  said that, in moving the postponement of the Order of the Day for Committee of Supply, he would avail himself of the opportunity to state the course which Her Majesty's Government proposed to take with reference to the further adjournment of the House. It would not be becoming in him to advert to the circumstances which had led to the recent change in the Administration, but he might be permitted to state that it was the anxious desire of Her Majesty's Government that no unnecessary delay should take place in the resumption of the public business. The House was aware that no new writ could be issued for the election of a Member until the expiration of fourteen days after the meeting of Parliament. That period expired with that day (Tuesday), and it would afterwards be his duty to move that certain new writs should be issued in consequence of the acceptance of office by those Members of Her Majesty's Government who had held seats in that House. The return to those new writs would occasion a delay in the business of the House of about a week, and it was consequently impossible that any of the responsible Ministers of the Crown could be in their places until about the middle of the ensuing week. He would therefore give notice that to-morrow he should move that the House on its rising do adjourn until Thursday the 30th of June; and he begged leave to move that the Order of the Day now read should be fixed for that day.
 MR. JACKSON  said, he should take up the Motion which the noble Lord had dropped and gave notice that in the next Session of Parliament he should move for a select Committee to inquire not only into the ship-building department, but also into the general expenditure of the Navy.
 MR. JACKSON  asked the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty (Lord Clarence Paget) whether he intended to proceed with the Motion for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the management and expenditure of the shipbuilding department of the Navy, notice of which stood on the paper in his name?
 MR. O. STANLEY  said, that as the House was now about to adjourn for a week, he wished to call the attention of the House to a statement which appeared in a newspaper published that morning ( The Times "As an illustration of the agencies that had been at work during the late struggle, Mr. Gilpin showed him two letters which he had received from the agents of the Tory party, and in which a direct attempt was made to corrupt Mr. Gilpin in the discharge of his duty as a Member of Parliament, and to influence him in giving his vote upon the last division, by offering to him a pecuniary consideration of the grossest and most direct character."
 COLONEL DUNNE  [thought that if the House took notice of all the statements made in newspapers, it would waste a great deal of its time. He himself spoke feelingly on the subject, because there had appeared in  The Times 444 The Times
 MR. CLIVE  thought it was impossible to proceed any further in this matter without a formal notice of a breach of privilege, and producing the name of the paper and of the editor. There was no accusation against the hon. Member for Northampton, and he thought the matter had better be allowed to drop.
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, that if there was nothing that affected the character of the hon. Member for Northampton, there was something that seriously affected the character of the House, and it should not
 445
 MR. BOUVERIE  pointed out that the two statements brought under the notice of the House were essentially different. That mentioned by the hon. Member for Beaumaris (Mr. O. Stanley) if it were correct, involved a distinct breach of the privileges of the House, and might bring upon the parties concerned the strongest condemnation of the House. The other statement referred to by the hon. Member for Stirlingshire (Mr. Blackburn) related to a matter with which the House had nothing whatever to do.
 MR. O. STANLEY  intimated that he should be ready to take that course at the proper moment, and
 MR. O. STANLEY  said, that as the hon. Member for Northampton was now in his place, perhaps he would at once answer the question, of his intention to put which at the next sitting of the House, he (Mr. Stanley) had given notice. The question was, whether there was any truth in the following statement, which, according to  The Times, "While in London he had also had an interview with Mr. Charles Gilpin, their other representative, who had accepted the office of Secretary to the Poor Law Board. As an illustration of the agencies that had been at work during the late struggle, Mr. Gilpin showed him two letters
 446
 MR. GILPIN  said, that he should have been glad to have had notice of this question before being called upon to answer it; but as the question had been put, he could have no hesitation in replying to it. In the publication of this statement he had no part, directly or indirectly. He had had no opportunity of reading the Report in  The Times,
 MR. O. STANLEY  said, that he would defer putting his second question until the next sitting. That question was, whether the hon. Gentleman intended to take any further steps with regard to this matter.
 MR. GILPIN  said, that the House was the best judge, but he did not think that this was a subject which need occupy any more of its attention. As far as he was concerned, he was not prepared to take any further steps in the matter. On receiving the letters he showed them to those hon. Gentlemen with whom he was accus-
 447
 MR. O. STANLEY  then gave notice, that he should take time to consider what further measures ought to be adopted for the vindication of the characters of Members of that House.
 MR. FITZGERALD  said, that the Motion, when agreed to, had not attracted the attention of the Department, and, as there was some difficulty in making the Returns, it had been thought better by the retiring Government to leave the matter to their successors to arrange. Perhaps the hon. Gentleman would recur to the subject when the noble Lord the Member for London again took his seat.
 MR. STEUART  said, that he had intended to move as an Amendment the suspension of the writ, supposing that the petition claimed the seat for the unsuccessful candidates; under which circumstance, it was not in conformity with the practice of the House that a new writ should be issued. As that was not the case, however, he was not prepared with any precise precedent in point; but he thought that the House ought to be informed what would be the consequence if the gentleman whose return was now petitioned against should be re-elected, and the Committee upon this petition should decide that he had been guilty of bribery. Having directed the attention of the House to the subject—which seemed to him to be one of some difficulty and importance—he left the matter in the hands of more experienced Members; hut he hoped that Mr. Speaker would favour them with his opinion as to what would be the effect of election of the same or any other Gentleman pending the prosecution of a petition.
 MR. CLIVE  said, that the circumstance of the seat being claimed or not claimed made, in his opinion, all the difference in the world, because he believed that there was no authority for suspending a writ under circumstances of this description, when the seat was not claimed. A precedent, however, occurred the other way in December, 1852, in reference to the Southampton election, when the seat not being claimed it was decided that the writ should issue.
 MR. WHITE SIDE  asked what would be the effect, supposing the decision of the Committee to be that the gentleman now petitioned against had been guilty of bribery, and in the meantime he should he re-elected?
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the case appeared to be precisely similar to that which occurred in 1852, in the Southampton case, when, upon the question of the issue of the writ, the matter was fully discussed in that House. The course pursued in that case, therefore, would be a good precedent and rule for the House to follow, unless sub-
 450
 MR. HUNT  suggested, as the case was one of considerable difficulty, that the issue of the writ should be suspended until an inquiry could take place. If the hon. Member should be re-elected, and the Committee upon the pending petition should afterwards decide that he had been guilty of corrupt practices, this extraordinary state of things would arise—that he would actually have taken his seat for a place for which he was ineligible to be a candidate.
 MR. BOUVERIE  thought that there could be no pretence for postponing this writ, and that the Southampton case afforded a clear precedent. Upon that occasion Mr. Hayter moved that a new writ should issue for the election of a member in the room of Sir Alexander Cockburn; whereupon Colonel Forester asked the opinion of the then Mr. Speaker as to whether a new writ could issue pending a petition against the former return. Upon which Mr. Speaker said, "that in the case of an election petition complaining of an undue return, or of the return of a Member in consequence of bribery, but not claiming the seat for another person, it was competent for the House to order a new writ to issue," adding, that in the case where the petition claimed the seat for another person, "it is not competent for the House to
 451
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that there was a great constitutional principle involved in this question. The petition in this case was of the most sweeping description; the whole borough was charged with corruption—electors and elected alike. It was not, therefore, a question merely as between the House and the Members, but as between the House and the borough of Sandwich. He would refer to his own case of Hertford in 1832, as a precedent directly in opposition to that of Southampton. Upon that occasion he, being the unsuccessful candidate, petitioned against the two noble Lords who were returned. He did not claim the seat, but he alleged that great corruption had been practised by the sitting Members, and that the borough had been guilty of great corruption. The Committee sat, and in duo time reported that great corruption did prevail in the borough of Hertford; and the House thereupon suspended the issue of the writ for the remainder of that Parliament, which lasted between two or three years. Supposing that a similar case of corruption should be established against Sandwich, and that the great majority of electors who had returned the hon. Member to Parliament had been bribed, he wanted to know what redress the House would have over the corrupt borough if they at once issued a writ for the election of a new member? In the case of Harwich also, which was a most notorious borough, the same thing had occurred, and no writ was issued for some time.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, it appeared to him that the issuing of the writ would be open to another objection. If Mr. Hugessen should again stand for Sandwich, and should obtain his re-election by a majority of one hundred to one, but should subsequently be declared incapable of sitting in consequence of a decision of the Election Committee, the opposing candidate would
 452
 MR. BRAND  could not admit that the Hertford case was at all in point, because there an inquiry had taken place before an Election Committee, who reported that corrupt practices had prevailed to a considerable extent; and the writ therefore was, very properly, suspended. But in this case there had been no proof of corrupt practices, and it would be an extraordinary thing to suspend a writ upon a mere assumption. Moreover, in the event of corrupt practices being proved to have taken place at the last election for Sandwich, it would be competent for the House to deal with the borough for those practices, whether the writ proceeded now or not. He trusted, therefore, that the House would not sanction the Amendment of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, but would at once direct the issue of the writ.
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  supported the Amendment. In the Barnstaple case, he observed, there had been a very similar petition to the present; but when the Committee came to inquire they found that a great many electors had been actually bribed. A Commission was then appointed to inquire into the electoral state of the borough, and the result was that very many persons were struck off the list. If a similar result should follow in the present instance, it might appear that a Member had been returned by the votes of those whose unworthy exercise of the franchise required that their names should no longer remain upon the register.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  was of opinion that the rule which the Speaker had laid down, founded upon the precedent of 1852, was sufficient for the guidance of the House upon the present occasion. But there was another point involved in the matter which might require further consideration, and that was the effect which
 453
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that the proceedings in this case had, no doubt, not yet arrived at the point they reached in the Hertford case; but he had put the event of wholesale corruption being proved, and then had asked what remedy the House would have against the borough if, in the meantime, the writ were issued?
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, that in the case of Harwich he himself was the Member who had been unseated. He had been unseated, however, not on account of bribery, but because the poll had been closed three minutes before the proper time. The hon. Member for Finsbury had told them that Harwich was notoriously one of the most corrupt of our constituencies, but he could state that he had himself twice contested the borough, and that he had not upon either occasion spent more than £300.
 MR. WHITESIDE  would admit the applicability of the precedent of 1852 but for the subsequent passing of the Corrupt Practices Act. The object of that Act was not to benefit individual Members, but to protect the House and put down and punish bribery. It provided that if any candidate should be declared by an Election Committee guilty of bribery or undue influence such candidate should be incapable of being returned at any election which might thereupon take place. Yet while the eligibility or ineligibility of a gentleman to be elected depended upon the decision of a Committee, they proposed, pending the investigations of the Committee, to issue a new writ.
 MR. MELLOR  trusted that the House would treat the question in a judicial, and not in a party spirit. The circumstances were admitted to be precisely the same as in the Southampton case, with the exception that since that time the Corrupt Practices Act
 454
 MR. STEUART  thought, that the difference of opinion which had been expressed by hon. Members showed the necessity for the further consideration of this question; and he therefore suggested that the issuing of the writ should be deferred at least till Thursday week.
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  was also of opinion that it would be well to postpone the issuing of this writ.
 MR. BOUVERIE  pointed out that in all previous cases in which the issuing of writs had been suspended that course had been adopted after proof of corruption before an Election Committee. In this case, there had as yet been no such proof, and the electors of Sandwich were therefore entitled to the writ which would enable them to be represented in that House. He hoped that all hon. Members who had a regard for the law of Parliament, for the regularity of its proceedings, and for the security of their own seats would resist the Motion for delay in this instance.
 MR. HUNT  asked the Speaker to state whether if Mr. Hugessen were re-elected, and a Committee afterwards declared that he had been guilty of corrupt practices, his seat would be vacated without a fresh petition.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that in the case of 1852, the Election Committee proceeded to investigate the allegations of the petition precisely as though no second election had taken place. It would be perfectly competent to the Committee to take the same course in the present instance; and the proof that Mr. Hugessen had been guilty of bribery would incapacitate him from sitting in Parliament after his second return. He had been asked whether the Corrupt Practices Act altered the law affecting this case. As far as he could judge, after looking at the Act, it did not make any difference. The same disability attached to the Member under the old law as attached to him at present. If he was proved guilty of bribery he was then, as he was now, unable to sit in the existing Parliament. It was not for him (Mr.
 455
 MR. B. COCHRANE  said, that as far as he understood, the rule had been established that new writs could not be issued for fourteen days after the meeting of Parliament, solely for the purpose of affording the House time to consider what course they should pursue in consequence of the presentation of election petitions.
 MR. WESTHEAD  suggested, that if the House established a precedent by suspending this writ, petitions might, under circumstances similar to those which had attended the late election, be presented against all Members who were likely to accept office under the Crown, and that great inconvenience might arise from their absence from the House.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  recommended the withdrawal of the Motion for the adjournment of this debate. Towards the close of the last Session he was a member of a Committee which considered this question, the opinion of which was that the suspension of writs previous to the decision of a Committee was a practice which that House was, in justice to the constituencies, bound to avoid.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he agreed with the hon. Member for the City of York (Mr. Westhead) that great public inconvenience would be likely to arise if the House were to adopt the principle that writs should be suspended in cases of that character.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, that in deference to what seemed to be the general feeling of the House, he would not persevere in his Motion for the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. HADFIELD  thought that notice ought to have been given to the parties affected before the subject was brought forward.
 MR. BRADY  thought that the hon. Gentleman ought to state what were the propositions which were made to him.
 MR. SPEAKER : The question now immediately before the House is, that the House at its rising do adjourn until the 30th instant, and it would not be proper to introduce such a subject as this on a question of adjournment. If the House should be of opinion that any breach of privilege has been committed, or if any hon. Member should make any formal complaint of a breach of privilege, the proper course to pursue is to lay the newspaper on the table with the name of the editor, and on that the House may give such orders as it thinks fit. These are in-indispensable preliminaries to any further proceedings.
 MR. BLACKBURN  thought, as the hon. Gentleman had brought this matter before the House, it would have been as well if he had called attention to the first part of the paragraph. It began thus:—
 "Mr. Dennis, the legal adviser of Mr. Vernon Smith, stated that he had had an interview with
 442
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said it did not appear to him that the hon. Member for Northampton was the person to be applied to. The proper person was the person who published the statement; and he thought his hon. Friend would do well to ask the Speaker to issue his summons to the person who had published that statement to attend at the bar of the House and to ask them on what authority they had published it. If they asked the hon. Member whether he had been offered a pecuniary bribe for the vote which he was to give on a recent occasion, he had no doubt they would be told that it was all a mistake. He would therefore move that the editor be summoned to the bar, and asked on what authority he dared to make such a statement. That would bring the matter to a proper test. As to what the hon. Member for Stirlingshire had stated, they were two distinct subjects. It seemed to be a squib against the proceedings of the late Government, but had nothing to do with the privileges of this House, while
 443
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he himself was not prepared with the names of the paper and the editor, but he still maintained that that was the proper course to pursue. It was totally impossible that the matter could remain where it was, and the editor of the paper which had dared to publish this statement ought to be required to furnish his authority.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  asked the late Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs why certain Returns which he had moved for
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, he thought the discussion ought not to be proceeded with until the parties concerned were present.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he rose to move for leave to introduce the first series of Bills to consolidate and amend the Criminal Statute Law of England and Ireland. For a considerable time a body of learned and eminent persons, called the Statute Law Commissioners, had carried on their labours with a view to discover the best means of securing the object which he then sought to accomplish. But shortly after they had commenced their inquiries they had found that they had two difficult questions to decide. The first was, whether their Bills should be a mere consolidation of the statutes or an amendment of the law. The next important question they had to consider was, whether or not they should include Ireland in their labours. It had been very well pointed out by Mr. Bellenden Ker that if they proceeded upon the principle of consolidating the English law only, they would create a greater difference than that which already existed between the law here and the law in Ireland, inasmuch as many of the statutes which had been passed since the Union applied to both countries. They also consulted Mr. Napier, the late Chancellor for Ireland, who had given it distinctly as his opinion, that there should be one set of statutes for both countries. In a communication addressed to the Secretary of the Statute Law Commission he said:—
 "I think the Irish Statutes ought to be overhauled, with the view of consolidating them as much as possible with the corresponding English Acts. We have about 2,263 Irish Acts before the Union; then, under Poyning's Act (10th Henry VII., c. 22), we have to import English Acts: and by the 8th Edward IV., c. 1, and 21st and 22nd Geo. III., c. 48, English Acts are extended to Ireland. Since the Union there have been passed about 1,300 statutes exclusively relating to Ireland; so that, in addition to the early and the post-Union Laws, which extend to both countries there are upwards of 3,560 statutes peculiar to Ireland. I believe it to be practicable to have one set of statutes for both countries, which would regulate most matters proper for legislation, though there are important exceptional subjects which, on principles of sound policy, ought still to be dealt with by special and separate legislation; but I own that I have the strongest desire to bring Ireland, as much as possible, under the same laws—administered in the same spirit as in England; without this the Union is an Imperial evil, and Ireland but a province. The very
 484 485 486 Ruins of Time, 487 "On the general principle of confiscation, it may be observed that it is open to the gravest objections. Sir Matthew Hale, indeed, does not offer any opinion concerning its impolicy or inhumanity; and Blackstone labours to prove what he terms the 'natural justice' of confiscation for treason. The first pattern for confiscation is supposed to have been given to the world by Sylla, the Dictator. Among the principal objections to confiscation may be reckoned that the penalty is, in many cases, excessive, and disproportioned to the nature and extent of offences; that it is unequal in its application to different offenders, being graduated not according to the gravity of an offence, but the magnitude and description of the offender's estate; that it usually involves the misery and utter ruin of the innocent families of offenders. Livingstone, Dumont, and Bentham, have written cogently against forfeitures, but nowhere, perhaps, are they more eloquently reprobated than in the following extract from a speech of Sir S. Romilly. He says:—'All confiscations forming part of a sentence by which death is inflicted, are founded, in my opinion, upon the greatest injustice. To confiscate the property of the criminal whose life is left untouched, is to take from him the means by which the enjoyments and comforts of life are supplied; but if the law deprives him of life also, the forfeiture can only affect those whom he leaves behind. Upon them alone the punishment falls; and, if the offender be at all affected by it, it is only as he may feel, and be afflicted for them. Almost all punishments, indeed, extend beyond the criminal against whom they are directed. The greatest criminals have often deserving relations and connections, who sympathize in their sufferings, and who, though perfectly innocent, thus endure a part of the punishment. But this arises from the necessary imperfections in all human institutions. In the law, however, of forfeiture, this, which is an unavoidable evil, but which all wise legislatures would, if
 488 489
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it was undoubtedly not his intention to offer anything like opposition to the Motion of the right hon. and learned Gentleman, but rather to tender to him individually his thanks for the labour which he had bestowed on this subject; and for his own part, he should welcome and receive with the attention due to the quarter from whence the Bills came the measures which were proposed to be laid on the table of the House. It was requisite, however, that the attention of the House should be called to another matter connected with this subject on which it was high time that some determination should be conic to. The House was asked on the present occasion to receive and consider statutes newly constructed for the purpose of consolidating the whole of the criminal law of England and Ireland. That was a simple proposition that they should at one blow abrogate the whole of the existing laws, and receive a new enactment in place of that which they now bad. Now, he wanted to know, and he wanted the House to consider, what means there were of assuring themselves that no alteration would take place, and that the new enactment and the new combination would amount, with the exception of the particulars specified, to nothing more than a re-enactment of the antecedent law? He was perfectly confident that the House never would be led to take such a leap in the dark. How, he would ask, could they arrive at the conclusion that these very universal and comprehensive measures might not in reality effect a radical alteration of the existing law? In one particular, that in which express alteration was intended to be made, he entirely concurred in the sentiments of the right hon. and learned Gentleman.
 490 491 492
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  begged to explain. His hon. and learned Friend seemed to have forgotten that the House had passed a Resolution declaring that it would be expedient to have a Department of Justice for this express purpose.
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, he would beg to remind the right hon. and learned Attorney General that he was in error with regard to the Statute Law Commission, for he was glad to say that since the hon. and learned Gentleman had last held office that Commission had been entirely annihilated, and there was now an opening for the appointment of a practical body of men to set to work to reform the law. He wished to ask the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Whiteside) whether the Bills now under consideration were not the same Bills which had over and over again been under the consideration of the House, and in point of fact the Bills introduced by the late Attorney General at the end of the last Session. Was it creditable the way in which things had been going on.
 495
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he had heard with surprise the statement which had fallen from his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Wallingford, that it was impossible to consolidate the statute law. He should indeed deeply regret if the House were led to acquiesce in that opinion. He for one could not bring himself to believe that it was impossible to do that in this country which had been done in other countries. He would now put the  Code Napoleon 502
 MR. WHITE SIDE  said, that in reply to the observations which had fallen from the Attorney General and other hon. and learned Gentlemen, wished to state that the number of statutes which these twelve Bills would get rid of was 264. The Bills had been drawn up by four experienced barristers; submitted to Mr. Justice Hayes, whose book on criminal law showed that his knowledge of the subject was second to that of no other learned Judge on the bench; afterwards examined by the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, and finally sanctioned by the Cabinet, by whom the principles they asserted had been most carefully considered. He believed that several of the alterations proposed by those Bills raised questions which it was essential for the Cabinet to consider—as, for instance, whether the punishment of death should be abolished in all cases but treason and the premeditated taking of life, casting aside the distinction between actual and constructive malice, and whether the criminal code of the two countries ought to be assimilated. If Bills such as those came down to Parliament with the approval of the Cabinet, he could not see what there was to prevent the two Houses from dealing with them. The Attorney General said, "Wait till we have a Department of Justice;" but he (Mr. Whiteside) ventured to predict that the Government would find much difficulty in carrying through the House the fiscal details which the establishment of such a department would necessitate. There were able lawyers in both Houses to consider Bills such as these; and in his own opinion the work would never be done except on the authority of a Cabinet. The law officers of the Crown possessed ample ability to direct them in the improvement of this measure, and it would redound to the credit of their administration if they could carry into effect a measure for the amelioration and consolidation of the laws of the two countries. [The ATTORNEY GENERAL: It was his desire to do so.] But the speech which they had heard rather went to show how difficult it was to do it, and how desirable it was to wait for the formation of some new department. He hoped that the country would soon have the advantage of a large, wise, and comprehensive measure.
 LORD ELCHO : Sir, I wish to give notice that next Tuesday week I shall move the following Resolution:—
 " That, in the opinion of this House, the correspondence respecting the affairs of Italy, which has been lately laid before Parliament, shows that the late Government have perseveringly directed their efforts towards the maintenance of peace and an amicable settlement of the differences between the contending powers, and that while they have preserved the strictest impartiality and conducted those complicated negotiations with patience and impartiality, they have at the same time upheld the honour and dignity of this country; and that it is further the opinion of this House that the policy of strict neutrality and mediation between the contending powers which has been pursued by the late Government, should be adhered to by Her Majesty's present advisers."
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he felt that he owed it both to that House and to some few individuals without its walls to explain what was really the present state of this great question of the consolidation of the statutes, and to endeavour to remove some misapprehensions which existed both with regard to the nature of the consolidation required and what had been done on the subject by the Statute Law Commission. It would probably cause some surprise that of the forty volumes containing the Statutes of Great Britain, not more than four, or one-tenth, consisted of statutes in force and operation; the remaining thirty-six were filled with Acts of Parliament which had expired, or become obsolete, or were for some reason or other not in force. In addition to this it must be remembered that the statutes upon any given subject were entirely unconnected, and, therefore, to ascertain the law upon it you must either study a text book or hunt through all the statutes from Magna Charta to the present time. The law there lay scattered piecemeal in different language and phraseology,
 498 499 500 501
 MR. BRADY  said, he wished to ask the noble Viscount the First Lord of the Treasury Whether he intends to introduce any measure this Session for the alteration of the laws in reference to landlords and tenants in Ireland.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, there was no Mo-
 483
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he must protest against the system of increasing the pa-
 503 504
 MR. MALINS  said, he was glad to have heard the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General distinctly point out that the consolidation of the statutes could not be carried into effect unless the House was prepared to abrogate its functions, and take the proposed enactment on trust, and he agreed with him that it was improper this should be done, and very unlikely that it would ever be done. But he had been surprised at finding that this was only preparatory to his hon. Friend's mounting a favourite hobby of his own, and declare that although the House was not to take these measures upon trust, yet that a body was to be constituted which would dictate to the House what measures they ought to pass. His argument was in effect that though the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin was not to be trusted, and he presumed though the hon. and learned Gentleman himself was not to be trusted, and though the House itself was not to be trusted, yet that when three
 493
 MR. MALINS  said, he was fully aware that such a Resolution had been passed, but it was in a very thin House, and at the time he had felt it his duty to protest against what he deemed a mere theory, and to declare that such a proposition could never be carried into effect. The Resolution was now three years old, and the experience of that interval had shown his observations to be well founded. Nothing had been done since that time; it was a barren resolution. He would almost venture to turn prophet and predict that nothing would ever come of it. Because was it to be supposed that if the Lord High Chancellor of England, the Attorney General and Solicitor General, the responsible officers of the Crown, whose duty it was to prepare and submit measures to the House, were not to be trusted with the discharge of this duty, they would be any the more fit to do so if they were called by another name; and even, as hon. Member below him had suggested, were paid additionally for doing so? He would venture to repeat what he had before said on this subject, that the Lord Chancellor of England, with the assistance of the law officers, formed the proper tribunal to which they should look for the administration of justice and for producing such measures of law reform as were to be submitted by the Government of the day. In consequence of the establishment of the Lords Justices, the duties of the Lord Chancellor had been materially lightened. It was only necessary that he should sit with them for appeal business when any special question arose, and he was sure his hon. and learned Friend agreed with him that it had a mischievous tendency to have two courts of appeal sitting in the Court of Chancery. The present arrangement would enable the Lord Chancellor, when Parliament was not sitting, to devote considerable attention to measures of legal reform and improvement which were to be introduced into the House. He concurred
 494
 MR. COLLIER  said, he could not but remark the little fruit which the Statute Law Commission had borne. It promised a great deal, but had not effected consolidation in a single instance. They had been long trying "how not to do it." Let them now take a turn and try how to do it. The reason why the Statute Law Commission had failed was, that though it was composed of eminent men, these men, however qualified, had not been able to devote the whole of their time to the consolidation of the law. The consolidation of the law was a great work, and required the undivided time and energies of the ablest men selected for the task. They had not yet tried the plan of a Department of Public Justice, such as had been proposed by the right hon. and learned Gentleman the late Member for the University of Dublin. He was satisfied that if the work were entrusted to a body of men, selected for their ability and who should be able to devote their whole time to it, it would then be done, and that in a few years they would see the chaotic mass of statutes reduced to something like order. When it had been found practicable to consolidate the Roman and the French laws, how could it be said that our laws defied every attempt at consolidation? He trusted therefore that the Attorney General would remember the pledge he had given on the subject, and that the matter would not be allowed to drop.
 MR. SLANEY  observed that great delays had taken place in the improvements proposed to be made in the criminal laws of the two countries, owing to the late frequent changes of Government. They had received, however, a practical illustration of a great improvement in the laws relating to the landed interest in Ireland, by the establishment of the Court for the Sale of Incumbered Estates. He did not see why, pending the passing of some more extensive measure, a similar institution should not be established in England, not, of course, compulsory, but depending upon the wishes of the applicants. He had no doubt but that the interests of individuals would induce them to adopt the plan of obtaining indefeasible titles to their estates.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he did not wish to prolong the discussion, but he must say he thought if hon. Members were really desirous of arriving at a just and sound conclusion, with regard to either the codification or the consolidation of the law, they would not facilitate the attaining that object by bringing into one matter which had been clearly submitted to them dozens of others which were not immediately connected with it. The right hon. and learned Member for Dublin University (Mr. Whiteside) had taken great pains with this subject, and as he (Mr. Walpole) was perfectly acquainted with all that the right hon. and learned Member had done upon it, assisted by his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General for England, he (Mr. Walpole) would venture to press upon the attention of Her Majesty's Government the consideration of what he believed to be a sound, safe, and practical scheme for the solution of the difficulty as far as the consolidation of the criminal law of England and Ireland was concerned. The first question which had occupied the attention of the late Government with reference to this subject was whether the law between the two countries should be assimilated or not, and it was agreed on all hands that it should be. The second question was whether the law could be amended and ameliorated, especially with reference to capital punishment. Upon that subject also there was an unanimous opinion in the affirmative. The third was the knotty question with reference to the law for conspiracy to murder, whether the laws on this subject of the two countries could be put on the same footing. It was also acknowledged that this ought to be done. Having come
 506
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  observed, that there were now five retired Lord Chancellors who, he felt persuaded, would be ready to lend their aid to the solution of this question, instead of throwing all the work into the hands of the present Lord Chancellor. Then there was the late Lord Chancellor of Ireland, than whom it would be impossible to find a better man for the purpose, whether his industry or his learning were considered. He begged to offer these sug-
 507
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, he could not consent to give his support to the present Government till he had some distinct understanding that it was their intention to maintain and increase the national defences. The late Government had done a great deal to put the country in a proper state of defence, and he gave them full credit for their exertions in that direction, though they had not gone quite so far as he could have desired. Previous Governments had acted excessively wrong in allowing the navy to fall off in point of efficiency; but he was happy to say that the First Lord of the Admiralty under the late Government had done a great deal to put it in a respectable and effective position. He never could forgive their predecessors for having paid off seven sail of the line in the year 1857, an act from which the navy never recovered; and again for having reduced the workmen in the dockyards. The late Government however when they recovered their senses did what they ought to do and gave us 24 sail of the line. He was sorry to say, however, that not more than 5,000 men had availed themselves of the bounty, few of whom were able bodied seamen. We ought to be prepared for any emergency. The French were making most extraordinary progress in Italy, and that great man the Emperor—for he would call him a great man—who though not bred a soldier was performing feats worthy of the first Napoleon. There was no saying what all
 482
 MR. BOWYER  said, it appeared to him that the argument of the hon. and learned Attorney General proved rather too much. If it proved anything, it proved the utter impossibility of the consolidation of the statute law being effected by Parliament. The hon. and learned Gentleman said Parliament could not take anything upon trust, and that it must assure itself by its own examination that what was proposed to be effected was not a change of the law but merely a consolidation. Now, how was it possible for a numerous assembly like this to enter into such an investigation? Parliament must trust somebody, and if it did not trust a Commission, or a number of learned persons who had undertaken the task of consolidation, it must refer these matters to a Committee of its own, and it would be necessary after all to take upon trust the report of the Committee. He said, therefore, that the argument of the Attorney General showed a defect in their constitution, and that Parliament was not efficient for this most important duty of legislation. The Attorney General proposed the constitution of what he called a Department of Justice, but, as had been observed, the putting a number of persons together and calling them a Department of Justice did not give them an extra power or capacity for doing this business. But what was a Department of Justice? That which the Attorney General described was not a Department of Justice, but of Legislation, whose duty it would be to draw up Bills for the consolidation of the law, and afterwards to submit those Bills to Parliament. But
 496 Code Napoleon,
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) whether, before the House went into Committee of Supply, any general financial statement would be made as to the income and expenditure of the country. For a year and six months there had been no such statement; during the last four months expenditure had been going on without any general statement; and probably no House of Commons knew less about the expenditure than the present. It was very desirable that an outline at
 508
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to regulate the proceedings of gas companies and others supplying the metropolis with gas. He did not expect any opposition to the Motion. The subject had occupied the attention of two Committees of the House in two different Sessions, but it would perhaps be more convenient if he deferred any remarks till hon. Members had had an opportunity of seeing how he proposed to deal with the subject.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  moved that Mr. Massey do take the Chair.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Perhaps the hon. Baronet will have the goodness to repeat his question when my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, shall—as I hope he will very soon—take his seat in this House. He will be much better able to answer the question than I am.
 VISCOCNT PALMERSTON : That question is one which, I know, excites great interest in Ireland, and it is a question that has often been under the consideration of this House. No measure, however, upon the subject has hitherto succeeded in passing into law. The matter shall receive the most earnest and attentive consideration, in the first place of the
 478
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I rise to move that these copies of the correspondence with the Commissioners at the head quarters of the Austrian, French, and Sardinian armies, which I have brought up by command of Her Majesty, should be upon the table. I would avail myself of this opportunity to make a very short statement to the House, not so much as to those circumstances in regard to which the public are already perfectly well informed, as with respect to the course of business which we shall propose to the House. It is well known to everybody that upon the failure of the efforts of my noble Friend, Earl Granville, to form a Government, I was honoured with the commands of Her Majesty to undertake the duty of constructing an Administration. The first step which I took under those circumstances was to address myself to my noble Friend the Member for the City of London (Lord John Russell) between whom and myself an agreement already existed that, whichever of the two might happen to receive the commands of the Sovereign to form an Administration in the place of that which had given in its resignation, we would cooperate for the purpose of forming an efficient and strong Government. My noble Friend, with the utmost promptitude and generosity, immediately consented to give his co-operation for that purpose, and undertook that which at all times is one of the most important departments of State, but which under present circumstances is, beyond all others, of national importance —I mean the direction of our foreign relations. My noble Friend and myself were able to surround ourselves with colleagues eminent for their public station and remarkable for their ability and knowledge of the administration of affairs, and I trust that we have succeeded in presenting to this House, to Parliament, and to the country an Administration which, by the distinguished elements of which it is composed, will command, obtain, and secure the confidence of this House and of the country. I need not say, Sir, that in some respects the duty which I had to per-
 479 480 481
 MR. ESMONDE  wished to know what course the right he n. Gentleman meant to pursue with regard to the formation of rifle corps in Ireland?
 MR. FITZROY  said, the Department with which he was connected had no control whatever over the Metropolitan Board of Works as to the drainage of the metropolis. The whole jurisdiction, superintendence, and construction of those works was vested exclusively in the Board by Act of Parliament. But not to be wanting in courtesy to the he n. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Locke), he had put himself in communication with the Chairman of the Board of Works on this subject, and had received from him the following statement, which he would read to the House:—
 "The Board have commenced the intercepting scheme by the construction of the high level sewers, in order to divert the flood waters from the lower districts and to facilitate the construction of the low level sewers. They are deeply impressed with the necessity for affording the earliest possible relief to those districts, as well as of diverting the whole of the sewage from the river without any avoidable delay, and have therefore, directed their attention to providing the engines and machinery for raising the sewage, without which it would be impossible for the low level sewers to perform their office. They have further ordered the immediate preparation of the contract drawings for the southern outfall sewer, into which the contents of the low level sewer will have to be pumped, and have instructed their engineer to lay before them some suggestions for affording immediate relief to the localities referred to pending the execution of the permanent works,"
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he wished to ask the late First Lord of the Admiralty whether the petition of the Masters of the Royal Navy (which was presented to the Admiralty in November last, praying that their position and prospects might be improved), has been considered; and, if so, what conclusion has been arrived at?
 MR. O. STANLEY  said, that referring to the statement that the correspondence had been shown to him, thought it right to say that the lady had written as the amanuensis of her husband.
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  said, he rose, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of the House to the statement made by Mr. Dennis at a public meeting of the electors of Northampton, that an offer had been made to Mr. Gilpin by the agents of the late Government to influence his vote in Parliament; and to call upon the Secretary of the Poor Law Board to communicate the letters referred to by him, with the name of the person from whom they originated, to the House. He was happy to state that, since he last brought the question of which he had given notice for that day before the House, it would not be necessary to take the disagreeable course of summoning the innocent printer and publisher of  The Times 542 "But he thought it perfectly right to state, as an illustration of the agencies that had been at work during the late struggle, that Mr. Gilpin read two letters which he had received from the agents of the Tory party, in which a direct attempt was made to corrupt Mr. Gilpin in the discharge of his duty as a Member of Parliament, and to influence him in giving his vote upon the late division, by offering him a consideration of the grossest and most direct character. He stated that at once, for the information of all people concerned, and for the consideration of the electors in case they thought fit to take up the matter. With what success the attempt had been made he need not there state, but he thought he was perfectly justified as an elector in exposing a transaction of so flagrant a character, and to tell the
 543
 MR. GILPIN  said, that when a short time ago the he n. Gentleman first brought before the House the subject to which he had again called their attention, he then without notice called upon him (Mr. Gilpin) to defend statements which he had not made, and to explain a speech which he had not delivered. That was, he considered, rather hard justice, especially from an he n. Gentleman sitting upon the same side of the House as himself; but upon the spur of the moment he made a statement which he could not do better than repeat—that letters were sent to him containing suggestions which, had they been acted upon, would have biassed his political course in Parliament; that he could not trace them, and did not trace them, to the agents of the Conservative party, and therefore he was not going to take any further steps in the matter. He did not know whether he stated then what had since become sufficiently notorious, that the author of those letters was a lady, but he presumed his he n. Friend was perfectly well aware that it was not the first time that ladies connected with political parties had exerted themselves in canvassing Members or constituencies. He confessed the thing appeared so utterly ridiculous that he had to look more than once at the notice of Motion, and to speak more than once to the he n. Member for Beaumaris (Mr. O. Stanley) before he could be quite sure that a Gentleman, as he undoubtedly was, would come down to the House of Commons and ask a fellow Member to give up the name of a lady. He was surprized that a Gentleman should think it right to make such a request, but he was quite sure it was a request which no Gentleman
 547
 LORD STANLEY  said, nothing could
 550
 MR. HENNESSEY  said, he would beg leave to ask the late First Lord of the Admiralty what steps the late Board of Admiralty had taken with reference to the complaints which had been submitted to the Board respecting the treatment of Roman Catholic Sailors in the Royal Navy?
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that upwards of four years ago a Committee was appointed, on his Motion, to inquire into the mode in which Government contracts were made, and in the course of their investigation it transpired that some extraordinary defalcations and irregularities had taken place in the Ordnance department at Weedon. A Commission was appointed to inquire into these circumstances, and he begged leave to ask whether that Commission had reported, and if so, when the report would be laid upon the table. The right he n. Secretary for War had given notice of his intention to move the appointment of a committee with reference to the War Department, and he (Colonel Dunne) wished to know whether that Committee would interfere with the functions of a Committee for which he intended to move, with reference to the reorganization of the civil branch of that department. The expenses of the civil department of the army had been enormously increased, but while larger armies had been recently moved by the French war department with the greatest case, he believed that if we were to go to war our system was so imperfect that great disasters would occur. He concluded by asking the Secretary of State for War whether the report of the Commission appointed to inquire into the state of the Ordnance Department at Weedon, &c, has been received; and if received, when it will be laid upon the Table of the House.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, as there was really no principle involved in the Bill, he was not prepared to oppose its passing through that stage. The measure proposed to deal with various fragments of
 557
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, as the provisions of the Bill involved some serious considerations he was desirous of further time being allowed for their examination. So far as he understood it, the object of the Bill was that the salary of the Assistant Judge should be increased from
 558
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  replied that the first legal subject to which the attention of the Government had been directed was the state of the Court of Marriage and Divorce. It must, however, be recollected that the arrears which had accumulated in that Court ought not to be regarded as affording anything like an indication of what might be expected to be the ordinary state of business. Many of the suits now pending had originated in circumstances which occurred as long as three, seven or eight, or even ten years ago, and an amazing amount of business had been brought before the Court simply in consequence of no tribunal of a similar nature having previously existed. When
 556
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he would beg leave to ask the Secretary of State for India whether the Proclamation confiscating the soil of Oude to the Crown is being acted upon, so that, while the rights of the talookdars have been restored in many instances, those of the peasants are considered to be forfeited?
 LORD ELCHO  said, he believed it would be more in accordance with constitutional practice that he should bring forward, on a Motion for a Committee of Supply, the Resolutions of which he had yesterday given notice, with respect to the policy pursued by the late Government upon the Italian Question, than that he
 537
 LORD ELCHO  said, he would then give notice that he would bring it forward on the first Supply night after Tuesday.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he wished to know whether, in addition to the 25 per cent of the men who were to receive arms from the Government, the others would be allowed to supply themselves with arms at their own expense?
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that there was nothing to prevent any number of the men from supplying themselves with rifles provided the gauge was the same as that of the arms supplied by the Government, so that the same ammunition could be used in both cases.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that the Government had only taken into consideration those cases in which offers had been made to them to raise volunteer corps. They had received no such offer from Ireland, and if any were to come it should be a subject of special consideration, inasmuch as the law in that case was not the same in Ireland as in this country.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : In answer to the question of my he n. Friend I have to state that the Government have taken into consideration the offers made by the various bodies of gentlemen who are willing to serve as volunteers; and I am glad to have this opportunity of expressing the sense which we entertain of the public spirit which has been evinced in promoting the formation of these corps. We propose to accept the services of the rifle corps upon certain conditions. The first of these is that a safe and sufficient range shall exist for their practice. In order to insure this —to secure that object—it is proposed that a military officer shall be sent down to each locality to examine the ground selected, and to report upon the safety of the arrangements which any of these bodies may adopt. I think it will be obvious that without such a precaution any corps that may be formed would become useless for want of practice, or that, if it did practice, it would become dangerous to the public. In the second place, we ask that there shall be a safe place for the custody of arms. Thirdly, that the rules for the government of the corps shall receive the sanction of the Secretary of State for War; and, fourthly, that there shall be a periodical inspection of the corps by a military officer. Supposing these four conditions to be fulfilled we propose to issue to each corps a certain proportion of arms sufficient for exercise, drill, and practice. It is not necessary for that purpose that every man in a corps should be armed; and we propose to issue Enfield rifles to the number of 25 per cent of the effective members of the corps. That arrangement would supply with arms one section of every company. Then, again, with a view to facilitate the drilling and practice of these bodies, we propose that a payment of one shilling a day with a billet should
 535 536
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, it was to be of the pattern of 1853. He did not propose to make any change in the rule laid down by the late Government.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  replied that the report of the Commission appointed to inquire into the transactions at Weedon bad not yet been received, but so soon as it had been presented, and the Government had had time for its consideration, it would be laid upon the Table. He had no wish to clash with the he n. and gallant Member with regard to the Committee for which he intended to move, and he might therefore state that he merely proposed the re-appointment of the Committee which sat at the end of last Session, whose labours he thought it desirable to recommence at as early a period as possible.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, as this was a very important question involving a large outlay of public money, and as the members of the Board of Admiralty had only taken their seats the day preceding, he thought it would not be unreasonable if he asked to be permitted to defer answering the question put to him until Monday. The Report of the Royal Commission on Manning the Navy was issued in February last, and his right he n. Friend (Sir John Pakington), so far as could be made out at the Admiralty, did not come to any decision on that Report until the month of June. He (Lord Clarence Paget) therefore thought it not unreasonable to ask to be allowed to postpone answering the question of his right he n. Friend until Monday.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the Return to which the he n. Member alluded was presented yesterday—the first day on which it could be presented—by his noble Friend the First Lord of the Treasury. With regard to the latter part of the he n. Member's question, "whether there was any objection to lay upon the table the Reports made by those officers up to the present time," he (Lord John Russell) must say there was very great objection to such a course. It was obvious that, if
 540
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, it will be perhaps for the convenience of the House if the Government will inform us what is to be the course of business for next week.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he viewed this question as an additional evidence of combined action on the part of certain Roman Catholic authorities to obtain concessions on various subjects. The notice
 552 553
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, there was no foundation for the fears of his he n. Friend, and he would shortly state what had taken place. During the first ten months after the re-occupation of Luck-now, in March, 1858, a great many talookdars gave in their allegiance, and they were, for the moat part, admitted to a settlement (on the basis of the summary settlement made in 1856–57), their tenure being made conditional on their rendering active assistance to the British Government in all matters of police. From this there was some reaction; but, after the issuing of the Royal Proclamation a new impetus was given to the returning allegiance of the landlords, and many fresh settlements were made. Some of the great landholders, however, held out, and others wore suspected of having participated in the murder of Europeans. Their estates were confiscated, and new settlements either made with friendly chiefs or with the under proprietors; but no estate had been confiscated in Oude, the proprietor of which had tendered his allegiance under the terms of the Proclamation. The number of actual confiscations was very small. The settlement was made principally with the talookdars on the principle of a general restoration of the stale of things which was found on the first annexation of the province; but regard was paid to the claims of the village proprietors (who, during the rebellion, had in many cases voluntarily acknowledged the authority of the talookdars), and a certain quota of the net profits of each estate was fixed as their share, while the talookdar was left without the power of enhancing his demands upon them beyond the sum fixed in the village rent-roll. By these arrangements it would appear that the rights of all parties are protected, the object having been, while reverting to the old talookdaree system, to afford, at the same time, increased protection to the village proprietors. The old talookdar system had been restored, but the interests of the under tenants, or proprietors, had been cared for by fixing their proportion of the rent,
 539
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, he begged leave to ask the Attorney General if it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring in any measure to remedy the delay which now exists in the trial of causes in the Matrimonial and Divorce Court, and to direct his attention to the mass of causes now existing in that Court. With reference to the latter point he might mention that there were now pending in that Court about 285 petitions, which had been filed for divorce or dissolution of marriage, and about 151 causes were standing for trial, many of which had been ready for trial some twelve or eighteen months. It was necessary to have the attendance of three Judges before a decree of divorce or dissolution of marriage could be pronounced, but the greatest difficulty was experienced in obtaining the attendance of the requisite number of Judges. But surely this was a needless guarantee, seeing that one Judge had the power to decide on a question of life or death; why not then upon the simple issue of adultery or no adultery. The country gave the Attorney General credit for being a sincere legal reformer; and, as he was the main author of the new law of divorce, there could be no doubt that he would be ready to remedy any defects which might be found to exist in the measure. The Judges were now about to proceed on their respective circuits, and the decision of the 151 cases to which he had referred—involving the happiness of families and the interests of children—must therefore be postponed for a considerable period. He wished to know whether the Attorney General would, during the present Session, endeavour to introduce some measure to remedy this delay.
 MR. CLAY  said, he considered that the question was one that ought not to have been brought before the House; it ought not to have been treated seriously; indeed, it was impossible to do so, for neither any power existing in that House or elsewhere,
 548
 MR. BRADY  said, that although on the occasion when this subject was last laid before the House, he had expressed himself as not being fully satisfied, having since been allowed to read the correspondence which had passed between the he n. Member and that celebrated lady, he must say that there was not a word in his reply which did not reflect credit on him as a man of honour.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the noble Lord having fixed a day for his Motion could not bring it forward at an earlier period.
 MR. JOHN LOCKE  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works whether the Metropolitan Board have commenced the construction of Low Level Sewers for the purpose of preventing the sewage of the metropolis from passing into the river Thames; or whether, on the contrary, they are merely proceeding with High Level Sewers, in order to divert the water from brooks and rivulets, and also the rain water, from passing into the river through the present sewers.
 MR. JOHN LOCKE  said, he rose to ask for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Act of 5 & 6  Wm.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he must request the indulgence of the House while be explained away the bugbear which possessed the lively imagination of the he n. Member for Warwickshire. No such demand as the he n. Member described had been made at the meeting referred to, or at any other. One simple demand was made and no other; and it was made by some of the highest nobles in England, as well as by Members of that House, and was now under the consideration of the Government. That demand was to the effect that the Catholic clergy should have free access to prisoners registered in the books of the establishment as Roman Catholics and to paupers in workhouses similarly registered, whether adults or infants. He believed, then, that the he n. Member might dismiss his great alarm, for those who had the administration of gaols and workhouses in England wore not emissaries of the Pope of Rome or agents of Cardinal Wiseman, but as true supporters of the Established Church as the he n. Member himself, and consequently there was no danger of the Roman Catholics being allowed to tamper with Protestant paupers or Protestant prisoners. If the Government granted that fair demand which had been made, the Roman Catholic Members would give them every legitimate support, for they asked not for places for themselves, but only for justice to those they represented. He concurred with the opinion expressed by a noble Lord in another place that it was not degrading or dishonourable to make or to grant such demands. With regard to the grant of a charter to a Catholic university, he had received a letter from a Protestant Member of that House, who said, "Nothing is fairer than your demand. What do you ask for? Nothing but that a Catholic college shall have the
 554 alumni."
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, that the noble Lord's explanation would be considered perfectly satisfactory.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he rose to put a question to the late Secretary for India
 549 minimum
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs why a Return, ordered on the 9th of June, relative to the Military Commissioner sent to the head-quarters of the French, Sardinian, and Austrian armies, has not been presented; and whether there is any objection to lay upon the table the Reports made by those officers up to the present time?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of the Admiralty Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring in any Bill during the present Session with the view of carrying into effect the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Manning the Navy.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had received a memorial from the Masters of the Royal Navy, such as the he n. Gentleman had described. It was only one of several memorials which he had received from different ranks of officers—namely, Medical Officers, Chaplains, Masters, and Paymasters. He was enabled to deal with the case of the Medical Officers and Chaplains, and he had hoped to be able to deal with those of the Masters and Paymasters also. He intended to have proposed some concessions to meet the wishes of those officers, which he thought reasonable and well-founded, but before he could complete the arrangements the Government of which he was a member came to an end. He had therefore left the matter, with all the papers relating to it, in the hands of his successors.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had no objection to answer the question, and he hoped what he was about to state would not bring him under the animadversion of the he n. Member for Beaumaris (Mr. O.
 551
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether Her Majesty's Government adopt the views of the late Administration with respect to Volunteer Corps, or whether they will be disposed to supply a sufficient quantity of arms for practice.
 MR. PALK  said, he did not rise for the purpose of prolonging the discussion; but the he n. Gentleman who first addressed them had made a charge against Gentlemen sitting on that side of the House which reflected not only on the members of the late Government, but on all those who had supported them during the time they were in office. The he n. Gentleman opposite (Mr. O. Stanley), if he had not misunderstood his language, had charged them with endeavouring to obtain votes by means which were not justifiable; and which, therefore, he supposed were discreditable to themselves and to their party. He, therefore, called on that he n. Gentleman, as one who was not in the habit of making charges which he was not prepared to prove, to name either on the present or on some future occasion when it might better suit the convenience of the House those particular members of the Government and those particular acts which he had called in question.
 LORD GALWAY  asked what was the kind of arm that was to be furnished by the Government.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he begged leave to move, that upon Thursday, the 14th day of this instant July, and upon every succeeding Thursday during the present Session, Government Orders of the Day shall have precedence of Notices of Motion. It was well understood he w essential such an arrangement as that was to the despatch of public business, and he should hope no objection would be made to it, seeing he believed the Motion he had just made was proposed at a later period than usual in previous Sessions. At the same time, perhaps the House would allow him to make a suggestion with the
 541
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : In answer to the question which I understand the right hon. Gentleman has just put during my temporary absence—a question as to the course of public business next week—I believe that all the Estimates not yet voted will be placed on the table on Monday. We propose to take the Army or Navy Estimates on Friday next—I am not quite sure which; but due notice shall be given on the subject.
 MR. FITZROY  said, that a day or two after he was appointed to the office which he now held he received a requisition from the Vice-President of the Board of Trade stating that there was such a want of light in his room as to prevent his transacting business, and requesting that some alteration might be made in the window. He understood that it was the general custom to accede to such requisitions from heads of departments, and as the gentleman was going out of town it seemed a favourable opportunity for making the alteration. He,
 588
 MR. COWPER  said, he wished to give notice of his intention to move for leave to bring in a Bill to limit the power vested in Metropolitan Vestry and District Boards, of permitting the erection of advertising or ornamental illuminated columns in the carriage way of the metropolis. He also wished to ask the First Commissioner of Public Works, whether his attention had been called to the practice of obstructing the streets by the erection of certain illuminated columns, of very hideous and sometimes ludicrous form, whereby great crowds were collected in those parts where they were most likely to be run over, and
 589
 MR. FITZROY  replied, that his attention as that of the public, certainly had been attracted to the curious structure erected near Apsley-house, but he had no more control over such erections than any other hon. Member. He believed that the vestrymen of the parish in which he had the honour to reside were the real culprits. He understood that a French company had recently proposed to set up these columns as a new mode of advertising, and he was afraid that a great many applications had been granted by the authorities of metropolitan parishes for the erection of these structures in different parts. The only way to deal with the matter was to proceed in the way pointed out by the right hon. Gentleman, and he thought he could not do better than leave it entirely in his hands.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he wished to inquire whether a general Bill, with reference to manning the navy, would be introduced before the House was asked for a grant of money.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, in that case he wished to give notice that upon the question of going into Committee on the Naval Estimates, he should propose that no grant of money should be made until the House had an opportunity of discussing a Bill having reference to the recommendations of the Royal Commissioners for the better manning the Navy.
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, that when the Bill came before the House two or three weeks ago, he moved the adjournment of the debate, because he felt that in the absence of a Government the second reading of such a measure ought not to have been urged with indecent haste. It seemed to him that this was an attempt to tax the whole of the country for the purpose of paying the Middlesex Assistant Judge, who was neither more nor less than a paid chairman of quarter sessions, a higher salary than he had at present. If any county chose to have a paid chairman of quarter sessions, the expense came out of the finances of the county and not out of the Consolidated Fund. He did not Bee why an exception should be made for Middlesex. He did not at all object to increasing the salary of the Middlesex Assistant Judge from £1,200 to £1,500 a year, but he objected to the burden which ought to be borne by the rich county of Middlesex, being thrown on the country at large. Let the county of Middlesex pay the increased salary and not the country. If they passed this Bill they would be forming a most dangerous precedent, for they might depend upon it they would have as a consequence all the County Court Judges and many others in England applying for an increase in their salaries. He would remind the House, that in 1853 a similar
 592
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, he must repeat that he did not object to the increase of the Assistant Judge's salary, but to the increase being paid out of the Consolidated Fund.
 MR. PACKE  said, that as it had been stated that this salary ought not to be paid out of the Consolidated Fund, but that the Middlesex Assistant-Judge should be paid in the same way as the chairman of other Quarter Sessions, he wished to observe that the county rates were in no way chargeable for the payment of any chairman of Quarter Sessions, and he thought it desirable that the statement he had alluded to should not go forth uncontradicted.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  observed that when the present Bill was brought in a previous Resolution was not moved, as was usually the case when charges were made on the Consolidated Fund. Consequently, the material clause was only printed in italics, and was not in fact, at present, part of the Bill. Therefore, in voting for the second reading, no Member gave a vote for any charge on the Consolidated Fund; and the only point the vote would decide would be the proviso that the As assistant Judge during his continuance in office should not practise as a barrister. The question as to placing the increase of salary on the Consolidated Fund could only be raised after the second reading, in the event of a Resolution being proposed as a necessary preliminary to the introduction of such a clause as was now printed in italics. He would now say a few words with respect to the merits of the Bill. In 1844 a Bill was brought in to give a salary to the Assistant Judge of Middlesex Sessions of £1,200 out of the Consolidated Fund. That Bill was sanctioned by Parliament and the sum had been annually paid since that time. Nothing, however, was then said as to the Assistant Judge not being permitted to practise; and the Assistant Judge was allowed to hold his office concurrently with any private practice he might receive. Mr. Serjeant Adams was the first Assistant Judge. That learned gentleman did not, in fact, practise, and therefore the question of the inconvenience
 598 599
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was glad to hear that the Home Secretary did not intend to extend the principle involved in this Bill beyond the County of Middlesex, or to allow any further pull out of the Imperial Exchequer. Indeed he could not understand on what ground the Assistant Judge for Middlesex should be paid out of the public funds, any more than the stipendiary magistrates of Manchester, Liverpool, or other towns, He assented to the second reading of the Bill on the understanding that by so doing he merely expressed his approval of the principle which, he believed was laid down by this Bill, that the Assistant Judge should not engage in private practice. After what had been stated by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Marylebone, (Mr. E. James), however, he thought that the House should receive some further explanation in Committee. It was stated that the Assistant Judge appointed a deputy Judge at five guineas a day, and that this office was a great advantage. Well if that be so, they ought to receive some explanation why the assistant Judge should receive at the rate often guineas a day for the 120 days he sat when the deputy Judge only received five guineas a day. These were matters, however, which could be better considered in Committee.
 MR. FITZROY  said, he must suggest that some alteration be made in the last paragraph with regard to the Office of Works. They had no returns to give.
 MR. RIDLEY  said, that the best return which could be made to the House as to the state of the river was the stench which entered the Committee rooms. That morning, he, as well as his colleagues, were greatly inconvenienced by the noxious effluvia that came from the river on the rising of the tide. It was so disgusting that they were obliged to keep the windows closely shut, and some Gentlemen were compelled to leave the room in consequence. If it continued it must endanger the health of hon. Members as to his knowledge had been the case last year.
 MR. COWPER  said, he rose to move for an Address for Copies of all letters and memorials addressed to the Committee of Council on Education or the Trustees of the National Gallery with reference to the admission of the public in the evening to the Turner and Vernon Galleries of Pictures, and of the answers thereto. Three collections of modern pictures had lately been given to the nation, and policy as well as gratitude required that they should be made accessible to all classes. The
 609 610
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that he had given notice of a somewhat similar Motion, but, as the subject was now in better hands, he should withdraw it. The object of his Motion was merely to inquire into the civil organization of the War Department, which was in such bad order and so unworkable that it would be impossible to go to war until it was altered. He did not wish to interfere with the prerogatives of the Crown or the administration at the Horse Guards, but merely to secure the efficiency of the civil department of the War Office.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, that he could not agree to the description of the state of the War Department given by his hon. and gallant Friend. It would be better if his hon. and gallant Friend had waited for the Report of the Committee before he made such statements. If the country were obliged to go to war, he believed the War Office would be found to be in the best possible condition for performing their duties to the public satisfaction.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he believed that the Secretary for War might make any ameliorations and improvements without waiting for the Report of the Committee.
 COLONEL LINDSAY  said, he did not think that the military element was fairly represented in the Committee of last Session. It was not fair that such a Committee should be almost entirely composed of civilians. He agreed, however, that it was desirable they should commence the investigation at once.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the principle adopted for making contracts for the Public Departments, and the effect which the present system had on the expenditure of public money. The Committee had already sat several Sessions,
 614
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he did not propose to extend the inquiry beyond naval und military contracts. As for the Committee reporting, he did not believe they would ever be able to do that; for they could not report until the accounts at Weedon were made up, and he did not believe that any man living could make up those accounts.
 MR. BYNG  said, he could corroborate the statements made by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Sotheron Estcourt). He had received a communication from the chairman of the Middlesex magistrates,
 596 s. s. d. s. d.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he wished to ask the hon. and gallant Member whether he would confine the inquiry to any particular class of contracts. Its object was very extensive; it had sat several years; some of the original Members had disappeared from the House, either by the will of the electors, or by removal to another world; and there was no prospect of the Committee reporting.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he must acknowledge that the arguments of his hon. and right hon. Friend in favour of a postponement had had a contrary effect upon his mind. It was because the subject was very large and of great importance that he wished the Committee to begin immediately, that they might the sooner come to a conclusion. He did not hope or expect that the Committee would finish their labours this Session, nor did he propose that they should come to a conclusion upon insufficient evidence. But he was very anxious to know what defects existed in our military administration, in order that he might know what remedy ought to be applied. It was very late in the Session, no doubt, to appoint such a Committee, but they might have at least eight sittings, in which they might examine many im-
 612
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he rose to move for a Select Committee—
 To inquire into the effects of the alterations in military organization regarding the War Office and Board of Ordnance which were made in the year 1855; and also to inquire whether any changes arc required to secure the utmost efficiency and economy in the administration of military affairs.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that it was impossible for the present Board of Admiralty to go into details with respect to this important measure between this and next Friday, when he proposed to bring in the Navy Estimates, but as soon after that date as possible the Admiralty would be prepared to introduce their Bills on the subject to the House.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the right hon. Baronet (Sir John Pakington) had asked him on Friday night whether it was the intention of the Government to bring in a Bill this Session to carry out the views and recommendations of the Government Commission on the Manning of the Navy. He had now to state, in answer to that question, that it was the intention of the Government to bring in a Bill on that subject. He was not prepared to state any of the details of the proposed measure at the present moment, but it would be brought in as soon as possible. With regard to the Navy Estimates, he might add that the noble Duke at the head of the Admiralty had informed him that the sum he proposed to ask from Parliament for the naval expenditure of the country would be the same as that which had been proposed to be taken by the right hon. Gentleman.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, after hearing the statement of the hon. Gentleman who had introduced the measure, it had occurred to him that the title which he had applied to it was rather a misnomer. It did not appear to be, as it professedly was, "a Bill to provide for the prevention of noisome effluvia from the river Thames," hut a Bill to ask the Metropolitan Board for returns which nobody would ever look at. He would not offer any opposition to the introduction of the Bill, but he wished to enter a  caveat
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said he thought that this question had arisen from a misapprehension of the real facts of the case. At the end of the year 1857, Her Majesty's Consul at Rio informed the Government that there was an intention of selling the slaves of the Imperial Brazilian Mining Association to a merchant of Brazil, named Santos, and asked whether such a transaction would be legal. The Government referred this question to the law officers of the Crown. It depended upon the construction of two statutes, one the 5th of  George
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he trusted the House would consider the question before they agreed to the proposition of the Government. His own impression was, that we should attain little advantage by appointing the Committee at once. Look at the language of the notice. "Select Committee to inquire into the effects of the alterations in military organization regarding the War Office and Board of Ordnance which were made in the year 1855." Now, the right hon. Gentleman could hardly have had an opportunity of making himself master of the changes which had occurred in the office over which he presided in consequence of those alterations. But, since 1855, very considerable alterations had been introduced by his right hon. and gallant Friend near him (General Peel), and many changes had been ordered which had not yet come into operation. He thought, then, that greater progress would be made if the Committee were postponed till the next Session. He should not, however, press that opinion of his own against any strong opinion that might be entertained by the Government; but he did hope that the Government would well consider, or reconsider, the proposition before the House. With regard to this being a large subject, that therefore no time should be lost, and that there was probably an opportunity of having some eight sittings on the subject during the present Session, this might not improbably lead to the not uncommon, but the inconvenient consequence, of no inconsiderable body of evidence, all of one complexion, being circulated amongst hon. Members before the inquiry was completed. Now, if the Committee were to be appointed, and there were to be only eight sittings, he thought they should examine into the opinions of at least what might be called the two schools on the subject. But considering the large
 613
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the hon. Gentleman seemed to think that he was anxious to postpone this statement. [Mr. BRIGHT: Not at all.] He must necessarily-come before the House in a short time; but until he obtained certain information with regard to payments in this country and India for railroads he could not make such a statement as would be satisfactory either to that House or to the Indian Government.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  replied that he should have occasion to make such a state-
 587
 MR. D. GRIFFITH  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether the British Consul at Rio has exercised his authority to prevent a certain contract for the sale of slaves in Brazil, by the directors of a British Mining Company in that country, to one Santos, from being carried into effect, although such sale professed to be
 586
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he had made inquiries as to the smell complained of by the hon. Member for Drogheda (Mr. M'Cann); and he found from the men employed in superintending the lime operations that it answered very well so long as
 608
 CAPTAIN DANIEL O'CONNELL  said, he rose to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer if he intended to bring in a Bill this Session for the better regulation of savings' banks?
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, that the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman removed the objection with regard to the financial portion of the Bill; but there was another point worth remarking on, namely, the relative positions of the Assistant Judge under the Bill and of the County Court Judges. The latter had to give up all private practice, and could not hold a seat in that House and he thought if £1,200 was deemed sufficient for them, that sum might also be considered quite enough for the Assistant Judge of the Middlesex Sessions. Again, the principle of preventing a Judge from pursuing his private practice, if good for one case, was, in his opinion, good for all, and a Bill should be brought in to prevent Recorders from practising as Banisters. He admitted that the recent appointment to the Assistant Judgeship of Middlesex Sessions was one of the best appointments, but it was matter of question whether that functionary was not amply paid with £1,200, considering that police magistrates were only paid 1,000 a year.
 MR. DIVETT  said that he was quite prepared to take the discussion of the points on which he objected in Committee. committed
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he wished to suggest that at this late period of the Session it was not likely the Committee could terminate their inquiry in any satisfactory manner. Was it worth while, then, to appoint the Committee during the present Session?
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, he rose to ask the First Lord of the Treasury whether it was the intention of Government to introduce any Bill to amend the representation of the people in Parliament during the present Session.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, he thought that the House would cordially agree to the principle of the Bill; that the gentleman filling the office of the Assistant Judge of Middlesex Sessions should not practise as an advocate. Any contrary course would be prejudicial to the public interests; for a Judge one day associated on the bench with the magistrates of the county might on the next day have to apply to them for a license for a victualler; or a case might be put to him for his opinion as counsel, and afterwards the same case might be argued before him as Judge, and he might possibly be obliged to pronounce an opinion as Judge contrary to the opinion he had given as counsel. With respect to the amount of salary he thought no lawyer in that House would express an opinion that any Judge was over paid, but with regard to payment out of the Consolidated Fund, he believed it originated in this way—the Middlesex magistrates applied to have their Judge paid out of the Consolidated Fund,
 597
 MR. M'CANN  said, there had been a great many statements as to the good which was to result from the use of lime
 607
 MR. BRIGHT  said he rose to ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for India whether it was his intention before the prorogation to make to the House any statement upon the subject of Indian finance; and, if so, when he would be able to fix the day on which he would make it?
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he would then give notice that he would repeat his question in the course of two or three evenings, with the view of having a day fixed at a period of the Session when there would remain in town a number of Members sufficient to discuss a question so important as that of Indian finance.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the hon. Member had already spoken on the Bill, but the House could of course give him permission to make any additional observations.
 MR. JOHN LOCKE  said, he was the only Member who last year objected to the measure proposed in a great hurry by Her Majesty's then Advisers for the purpose of handing over all responsibility connected with the river to the Board of Works, and he now asked what had since been done by the Metropolitan Board of Works. The Board diverted every stream of water that was not particularly offensive from the Thames, and carried it off to some place far away below London Bridge. By this means they reduced the stream of water, and the filth carried into the Thames by the sewers was left to stagnate much worse than before. He had not yet been able to discover the utility of this Metropolitan Board of Works.
 MR. MALINS  said, he considered the arrangement which had been made by his right hon. Friend (Mr. Sotheron Estcourt) eminently beneficial to the country. The late Assistant-Judge, Mr. Pashley, was eminently fitted for the office, but its duties clashed with his practice at the bar, which was very considerable. The consequence was, that he was frequently very much inconvenienced, and he himself had told him that there must, in many cases, inevitably be a contest between interest and duty in the breast of a Judge who was also a practising barrister. Twelve hundred pounds a year was not sufficient to call upon a person in the situation of Assistant-Judge to give up practice; and however anxious a Judge might be to discharge his duty, it was perfectly vain to deny that if on any particular day on which his Court sat, an important cause in which he was retained as chief counsel was coming on in the Superior Courts, there would not be a contest between interest and duty which could not fail to be very injurious to the public service. The hon. Member (Mr. Locke King) however did not object to the amount of salary but to the fund out of which the salary was paid. But this argument went too far, because if an error were made in originally ordering the payment of this salary out of the Consolidated Fund, the hon. Member ought to move that the salary be taken off that Fund and paid from some other source. If, however, it were found that the duties could not be performed for £1,200, public justice and convenience alike required that such a salary should be paid as would insure the efficient and proper discharge of the duties of the office. With regard to Mr. Bodkin, every man in the profession would admit that, from his peculiar experience and high character, a fitter selection could not have been made. He believed that the learned gentleman was offered the appointment by the right hon. Gentleman (Sir George Grey). He had but a slight acquaintance with Mr. Bodkin, but he had, like every other lawyer, the most profound respect for him. Mr. Bodkin had given up his private practice to accept this appointment, and he had every reason to suppose that
 595
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to remove doubts as to the qualification of persons holding diplomatic pensions to sit in Parliament, said its object was merely to enable gentlemen who possessed extensive diplomatic experience to occupy seats in the House, and afford the advantage of their knowledge and sagacity in the discussion of foreign affairs. He believed that the objections which prevented gentlemen in the receipt of diplomatic pensions from sitting in that House were merely of a technical nature, and that their position differed in no respect from that of gentlemen in receipt of official pensions; but he would reserve a full explanation of the principles and details of the Bill, the introduction of which he found would not be opposed, until the second reading.
 MR. LOWE  said, he also had to move for leave to bring in a Bill to provide for the authentication of certain Orders of the Privy Council in the absence of the Clerk of the Council in Ordinary. It was not the intention of the Government to fill up the vacancy in the clerkship of the Privy Council occasioned by the resignation of Mr. Greville; but it was necessary to take some step to prevent the stoppage of public business in case the remaining clerk should become incapacitated. The Bill would enable Her Majesty to appoint, during Her pleasure, some person to perform the duties of the Clerk in Ordinary.
 MR. WALPOLE , in moving that this Bill be read a second time, said that it was a measure which had come down from the House of Lords, where it had received the fullest sanction of the law Lords, and it was of extreme importance that it should be speedily passed. The details of the Bill were of so technical a character that the House would hardly wish to got into
 591
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he should support the Amendment, as he considered the principle of the Bill to be altogether anomalous, and he hoped the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer would be aroused to the dangerous precedent which passing it would create. In all other places, such as Liverpool and Birmingham, in which they had stipendiary chairmen of quarter sessions, the money was paid by the county, and why should not this salary be paid by the county of Mid-
 594
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  observed, that the Middlesex magistrates expressed to him their desire that the Assistant-Judge should not retain his private practice.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, that he was the individual who introduced this Bill, and he quite admitted that the present Government were in no way responsible for it. The House would, perhaps, permit him to remind them what were the circumstances under which the late Government thought it fair to sanction this increase in the salary of the Assistant Judge of the Middlesex sessions, from £1,200 to £1,500 a year. On the decease of the late Assistant Judge, he, as then holding the seals of the Home Office, received from the magistrates very urgent remonstrance, which were confirmed and strengthened by other gentlemen, against the policy of allowing so important an office as Assistant Judge to be held by a practising barrister. It was urged that it was treating that gentleman unhandsomely and often placing him in a somewhat degrading position. On one day he sat to determine a case, when the very day following he was in the position of an advocate, and liable to be called upon to advocate the cause in a higher court of the very person condemned by him; and although he (Mr. S. Estcourt) did not pretend to be conversant with law, that struck him as such a strange anomaly, that he could not help thinking, as a matter of common sense, that a gentleman who during many months in the year was engaged week after week in presiding in one of the courts of criminal jurisprudence in the metropolis, ought no
 593 quid pro quo
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he did not rise for the purpose of objecting to the Bill, but to submit as this was a matter of general interest, that it would be very satisfactory to the House if the hon. Member would favour them with at least a sketch of what he proposed to accomplish by the measure. A very few words would satisfy his own curiosity; but for the sake of the House, he thought that an outline of its provisions ought to be given.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It is certainly my intention to adhere to the course usually followed on these occasions. On Friday next the representatives of the military and naval departments will be prepared to enable the House to proceed with these Estimates, and to make known to the House, as far as can be made known, the proposed expenditure for the year in connection with these departments. As soon as the House has disposed of these, the principal demands on the public purse, it will be my desire to fix the earliest possible day for the financial statement of the year, for I know it is very inconvenient to the public that it should be postponed longer than necessity requires. But it is not my intention to make any statement apart from the usual statement which combines the subject of the expenditure with the Ways and Means of the year.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that it was possible that some Bill might be passed with regard to one or two points of detail connected with the management of savings' banks; but he did not think the Session would last long enough to afford a reasonable prospect for the full consideration of any general Bill upon the subject.
 MR. ANGERSTEIN  said, he wished to ask a question in reference to a report which was current to the effect that this high level sewer was to discharge its contents into Deptford Creek. He was quite sure the House would not take a narrow view of the question of the health of the metropolis, and that they would be unwilling to expose a large portion of a metropolitan district to so serious an evil as that of discharging so large a quantity of sewage matter without deodorizing it, as he understood would of necessity be the ease with the high level sewer. The question which he would venture to put to the hon. Gentleman was whether it was the intention of the Board to carry out the high level sewer at once, or whether they would consider the outfall first, and begin in the way that would be most complete, and which would conduce most to the general health of the metropolis.
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he was of opinion that the expensive experiments upon deodorizing the river were almost worthless. No permanent benefit would, in his opinion, result from them; neither did he approve of the system of drainage, which was, in his opinion, founded upon a wrong principle.
 ALDERMAN CUBITT  said, the Board of Works had been proceeding with all possible despatch ever since they had received their new powers; but it must be remembered that those powers were not conferred upon them till late last Session, and that time was needed to prepare their plans. All that was now required was a little patience; for it was impossible that great works like these could he carried out in a few months. He hoped, however, that in three or four years the scheme would be completed, and that the noxious effluvia of which they had now to complain would be removed. He begged to state with reference to the high level sewer that it was never intended that it should empty itself into Deptford Creek. The Board had merely taken Deptford Creek as a point to which it should be constructed until proper machinery could be constructed to convey the sewage lower. As to the smell at Charing Cross on Sunday, that had arisen from the sewer having been accidentally left uncovered.
 MR. MONSELL  observed, that he perfectly agreed with the right hon. Member for Stroud (Mr. Horsman) that it would be well to postpone this Committee until next Session. The subject was very large and of the greatest importance, and a Committee appointed on the 8th or 10th of July could not go fully or sufficiently into it. It would he impossible for them to do more than commence their inquiry, and all they would be able to elicit would be the existing state of the Department. Seeing that there would not be time to hear the well-considered views of persons on both sides who were competent to give an opinion, he recommended that the Committee should begin to sit at the commencement of next Session.
 MR. TITE  said, he wished his hon. Friend in his Bill had been fortunate enough to suggest some remedy for the gigantic evil against which the Board of Works had to contend. He would not discuss the provisions of the Bill, because, by a measure which the House had been good enough to pass last year, the Board had received the fullest powers of raising money, and therefore that portion of the Bill which referred to this subject was quite unnecessary. But the subject to which he desired to call the attention of the House was the steps that had to be resorted to pending the interval that must elapse before the improved sewerage system would come into operation. Last year no less than £5,000 had been spent in remedial measures, and this year they had spared no efforts to diminish the mischief arising from the state of the Thames, but which could only be cured by the great system of intercepting sewers which they were endeavouring to carry out. With regard to the contracts and the purchase of land for those sewers, he believed so much progress had been made that he might promise the House that a great deal of the evil would be remedied in the course of three years instead of five. One large sewer contract made in February of the present year was one-fifth completed. That was the high level sewer on the City side; and on the Surrey side of
 605 606
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, it never appeared on the business paper. He dared any some of the political friends of the Assistant-Judge wished to increase the salary, but it was better for that gentleman that he should be able to earn £1,000 a year by his practice, than to have his salary increased by £300 a year, and to be idle half his time. The Judges of the County Courts had a great deal more to do, and they were not allowed to practise.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that fourteen years ago, this officer was the Chairman of the Middlesex Quarter Sessions. The office was then contested for the honour of holding it. Mr. Serjeant Adams was the first who applied to the magistrates of Middlesex for a salary. They refused to grant it, and he then applied to the Secretary of State for the Home Department. For himself, he thought £1,200 a sufficient salary, though he did not wish to disturb the present arrangement. He certainly thought however, that the salary ought to be paid by the county. During Serjeant Adams' tenure of the office, Bills were brought into the House three times for the increase of the salary to £1,500 a year, and each time the Bill was thrown out, but he continued to hold the office for years after to the satisfaction of the public. The late Assistant-Judge, Mr. Pashley, never thought of applying for an increase of salary. He was glad to see the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his place, and he would take the opportunity of calling his attention to the fact that before the passing of the Reform Bill the Civil Service Estimates amounted only to £4,200,000 a year, and that now they amounted to £9,100,000. The Question never came before the magistrates of Middlesex.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to remind the Government that no financial statement had been made to the House for fifteen months, and to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer Whether it is his intention to make any financial statement previous to the House going into Supply. He need not say that it was of the highest importance, and should be made as soon as possible, particularly as regarded the expenditure of the country.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he would inform the hon. Gentleman that he left several Bills already drawn, and having reference to the recommendations in ques-
 590
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, the returns which his hon. Friend was anxious to obtain from the Metropolitan Board would doubtless be of a very expensive character, and he trusted that if the House agreed to the Bill they would also be induced to pay for these returns; for, as they were aware all the cost of their preparation,
 604
 MR. PALK  said, he thought this Bill might establish a precedent which it would not be desirable to adopt; for if the magistrates of Middlesex were empowered to increase the salary now paid to the Assistant Judge of the sessions out of the county rate, a similar power might be demanded by the magistrates of other counties. At present he was not aware of any county in which the chairman of quarter sessions was paid by a county rate. The measure was, in his opinion, calculated to increase the discontent of the ratepayers, who already objected to the magistrates having the power of burdening the county rates with the salaries of certain officials.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he rose to move for the following Address:—For returns from the Metropolitan Board of Works, and from all district boards established under the Metropolis Local Management Act, and from the City (of London)
 601 Dreadnought
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he was quite ready to state that the Bill required the Metropolitan Board of works, and the various district boards, to make a monthly return of all they had done or were doing in regard to their sewage operations, and in placing the River Thames as much as possible in a proper condition. It might be said that those returns could be made without any compulsory enactment; but he felt that the matter was so important, and that the sanitary condition of the metropolis was so largely affected by the state of the river, particularly during the period
 603
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he wanted the return for the last three years.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he would then, pursuant to notice, ask leave to introduce a Bill to provide for the prevention of the noisome effluvia from the River Thames within the metropolis. He believed there was no opposition to his Motion, and he would therefore reserve his statement as to the details of his measure until the second reading. He wished, however, to observe that in bringing in his Bill he did not mean to reflect upon the Metropolitan Commissioners, but he felt that the House had a right to demand periodical returns of what was doing by them from time to time to remedy the effluvia from the river, which was not only noisome in itself but destructive to the health of the metropolis. He was sure that from the simple and practical nature of his Bill no body of men like the Metropolitan Commissioners, in the performance of duties for which the public should feel grateful, could for a moment object to its introduction.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works whether any alterations are being made in the office of the Board of Trade; and, if so, by what authority, and whether it is intended to submit an estimate to Parliament for them?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he wished to draw the hon. Member's attention to the paragraph referring to the Astronomer Royal, which omitted to specify any time.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I think the hon. Member was not in his place on a former occasion when I had to make a short statement to the House on the business of the Session, and I then took occasion to observe, and I now repeat that, considering the advanced period of the year and the probable duration of the Session, it was not the intention of the Government to propose any measure to amend the representation of the people this Session.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he thought the weight of argument was in favour of the immediate appointment of the Committee. He had the honour of serving on this Committee before the dissolution, and in their sittings they took a great deal of evidence, which it would be exceedingly important for the House to know. There could during the present Session be, at all events, eight sittings and probably more; and in those sittings they might place on record evidence on both sides, applying to changes which had been made; and with regard to any alterations which the right honourable Gentleman who had recently filled the office of Secretary of State for War might have ordered, and which might be still in progress, the Committee might be re-appointed next Session, and then the inquiry might be resumed and completed. But he hoped that the House would not lose what remained of the Session with put commencing the inquiry. To do so might be regarded as shelving the investigation, and he therefore hoped that the Committee would not be postponed till the next Session.
 MR. FITZROY  said, he had some years ago expressed the views now stated by the hon. Member for Cambridge on this subject, and still held that relief should in all these cases be given by a general Act.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, he would beg leave to ask the First Commissioner of Works whether he proposes to carry out the intentions of his predecessor in office, as expressed on the 8th of last March, by taking a Vote in the Estimates for the purification of the Serpentine during the autumn of this year?
 MR. FITZROY  was understood to say he hoped to propose a Vote for the purpose in question during the present Session.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was prepared heartily to thank the hon. and learned Gentleman for having brought that subject under the consideration of the House. He wished, however, to draw his attention to a fact which seemed to have escaped, not only his notice, but also that of the other hon. Member who had spoken. The hon. and learned Gentleman had talked of "penal imprisonment;" but he had not informed the House that those parties were not really treated as debtors, but subjected to certain strict regulations issued by the Secretary of State, and that although they were not put to hard labour, they were exposed to special hardships in their diet and in other details of their treatment. The fact was, that these people were considered as fraudulent debtors. But there was every reason to doubt whether their cases were investigated at sufficient length to enable a Judge to decide whether or not their liabilities had been fraudulently contracted. In many cases the families of the unfortunate persons who suffered under this state of the law were maintained by the parish, while the prisoners themselves were maintained out of the county rates during their imprisonment; so that the punishment was merely vindictive. Whenever they should get into Committee, they would have an opportunity of considering all the details involved in the measure.
 CAPTAIN STUART  said, he also thanked the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth for introducing the Bill, as he could bear testimony to the hardships which were inflicted under the present system. In his own county many poor girls and women were induced to incur debts with travelling dealers, and some time after were summoned, and failing to appear were at once committed to prison. As a magistrate he could say that great expense was thrown upon counties by the present system.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS , in seconding the Motion, observed that if the rule laid down by the Government were adhered to, the small arms could only be supplied to the extent of a few thousand of second-rate guns, which were in the stores of the contractors, and were sold by the gun makers at £5, probably not being worth £2. It was, of course, impossible to give as good a supply as could be wished, but he understood that his hon. Friend only wished to inquire into the whole subject. His object was also to ascertain from the Government whether, when the corps had been formed and drilled, they would be supplied with arms to the extent of 100 rifles to each company, so that they might be ready to act in case of invasion. The assembling of men to shoot at targets was merely a preliminary matter; the great point was to have them trained and prepared for actual warfare. As to the clothing of the men, that was a point of some importance. If the men were ever to be rendered available, they must have suitable clothing. A great many persons had contended that the proper attire consisted of an ordinary shooting-coat and a wide-awake hat; but they seemed to forget that an important point was to dress the riflemen in such a way that in case of their being taken they would be treated as prisoners of war, and not merely as peasants taken in a hostile country with arms in their hands, and who by the rules of war were subject to be hanged like so many dogs. ["No, no!"] Hon. Gentlemen would perhaps accept the authority of the late Duke of Wellington on that subject. On the entry of the British troops into France in 1814, there was some rising against them of the peasantry, and in a despatch to Marshal Beresford, the Duke said, "If I have to complain of this or other villages again, I will treat them as the French treated the peasantry in Spain. I will totally destroy the villages and hang all the peasants in arms." If the Duke of Wellington would do that for the protection of his soldiers the House need not expect that a French force would act more leniently in this country. It was, therefore, not a mere matter of fancy but an important point so to clothe the Rifle Corps that they should be recognized as prisoners of war in case of any of them being captured. He hoped that, in a matter requiring such serious consideration as the present, the
 683
 MR. HENRY BERKELEY  said, that the House was indebted to the hon. Gentleman opposite for bringing this matter forward. The question was one that deserved the most serious consideration, and one on which the House ought to express an opinion. There could be no doubt that England was less prepared to resist an attack in case of invasion than any other country in the civilized world. The question of preparation simply amounted to this:—If they were prepared, they had men sufficient, and they only required to be furnished with that which constituted courage, namely, discipline; for, in the event of invasion, without discipline the inhabitants of a country, however individually brave, would become a frightened rabble. This was an opinion which every military-man in the House would endorse. As it appeared to him, both the present and the late Government had been wrong in their view of this question. The first occasion on which this subject had been brought before the Secretary for War was by the people of Bristol, who waited on Lord Panmure for leave to form a rifle corps, but Lord Panmure would have nothing to do with volunteer corps. He himself had subsequently laid an address before his right hon. and gallant Friend opposite (General Peel) in which the mayor, corporation, and people of Bristol desired permission to arm. First of all this had been denied to them, but when it appeared that the desire was general throughout the country permission was granted to form a corps, which was accordingly done. His opinion, not being that of a military man, was probably not worth much, but he gave the preference to the formation of companies over regiments. But he certainly did not consider, however, that the proper way to form a regiment was to commence with the staff and band; what was required was that men should be drilled to the practice of the rifle, and that in case of emergency they should be disciplined to a certain extent, but not disciplined with all that paraphernalia and pipe-clay which is deemed necessary at the Horse Guards. From time immemorial it had frequently been the fact that the undisciplined adherents of an army had done more execution than the army itself. In the American war the battles of Bunker's
 684 685 686
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, that having had the experience of some twenty-five years in Her Majesty's service, he rose to express his sincere hope that both the House and the Government would be very cautious how they gave encouragement to the formation of these rifle corps. He was not one of those who dreaded invasion. He had no fears that any one, even the Emperor of the French, would be such an idiot as to attempt a descent upon our shores. But he feared that unless we exorcised very great discretion we might find ourselves drifted into the war now raging in Europe; and certainly he would oppose no reasonable vote of money that was demanded for the improvement of our forces, and especially for the increase and efficiency of our navy. After the navy came our army, which required a great deal of improvement; and then came the militia, on which a considerable sum of money was expended, and which might be rendered much more efficient than they had hitherto made it. They ought therefore to be careful lest by giving encouragement to volunteers they did not abstract that portion of the population more immediately available for the militia. For this reason he thought that every sum of money taken from other sources of defence to form rifle corps was just so much money thrown away. If they were to be at any expense at all with these rifle corps, it should be in serving out the ammunition at cost price, in order that they might be obliged to keep their weapons all at the same bore. He thought he gleaned from the observations of the Secretary of State for War the other night that he was not quite sure that it would be desirable to give too much encouragement to those rifle corps. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to think that if he did not support the rifle corps movement he would be accused of running counter to the feeling of loyalty in that respect displayed in the country. But he (Colonel Dickson) hoped no Government would allow themselves to be influenced by a feeling such as that. He trusted the Government in the course they might take on this question would confine themselves to the formation of artillery corps in maritime towns, which would be a valuable
 687
 GENERAL PEEL  said, that as he had been appealed to by the hon. Gentleman, perhaps the House would permit him to state the views of the late Government on this subject. The circular issued by them did not arise from any fear of invasion on their part, but solely in consequence of the numerous and urgent applications which were made to them for permission to form rifle corps, on the express understanding that they were to be of no expense to the country. The first application was from
 690 691 692
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, if the noble Lord were correct in his estimate of the number of men that would volunteer they would certainly be of some use if they were disciplined; but he was of opinion that those men would not undergo the necessary amount of discipline requisite to render them of any service to the country. He thought that we could not place the slightest dependence upon the volunteer corps. They would never consent to become regularly
 694
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he would very cordially give his assent to the Motion of his right hon. Friend, and would also support the Bill in its subsequent stages, should leave be given to introduce it. He entirely concurred in the statement of his right hon. Friend that there appeared to have been a misconception in framing the Catholic Relief Bill as to the nature of the functions of the Irish Chancellor. Sir Robert Peel, when he proposed that measure, was under the impression that the Irish Chancellor, like the English Chancellor, had the distribution of church patronage; hut there was not the smallest
 715
 COLONEL DUNNE , in explanation, disclaimed any wish to throw cold water on the movement. He had merely spoken of what he considered likely to be the result of the movement.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, a reflection had been thrown out by the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir J. Shelley) that military officers were opposed to all improvement, and that if their will had been allowed to prevail the British soldier would still be armed with Brown Bess. In answer to that remark, he felt it due to the memory of the late Viscount Hardinge, to state that he had effected great improvements in the army, and that to him in particular we were indebted for the introduction of the Minie rifle, He must add, that he highly approved of the formation of Rifle Corps, and thought they would prove most useful if they submitted to military discipline; if not, they would be more dangerous to their friends than their foes.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that in giving his assent to the introduction of the Bill, he wished to state that he concurred entirely in the principles laid down by the hon. Gentleman as to the opening of the Court, though he saw some difficulty as to the manner in which they were to be car-
 700
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  said, that he rose to move for leave to introduce a Bill to amend the Foreign Enlistment Act (59  Geo. Geo. Geo. 701 sicco subductœ litore puppes.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he conceived that the hon. and learned Member
 702 703
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  said, as the general feeling of the House seemed to be that the present was an inopportune occasion for proposing an alteration of the law, he would not press his Motion.
 MR. A. SMITH  said, he regretted that the hon. Gentleman had felt it his duty to bring forward his Motion. Last year he had introduced a similar measure, which was negatived by a very considerable majority. He (Mr. A. Smith) thought this Bill would have the effect of removing an important constitutional security with regard to the acceptance of office by Members of that House. He knew it might be said they were now experiencing one of the inconveniences of the existing law, for the right hon. Member for Ashton (Mr. Milner Gibson), who had a very short time since been returned to that House, had, in consequence of being transferred to a new office, been compelled again to solicit the confidence of his constituents. They must not, however, on account of the inconvenience to which a few individuals might be subjected, lose sight of the great principle involved in this question. An hon. Member of that House who had accepted office under the Government might subsequently be transferred to another office after the lapse of a considerable time, during which important political questions might have been discussed, and it was only fair that his constituents should have the power of ratifying or disapproving his acceptance of a new office. There were rumours recently in the newspapers that it was intended to form an Administration of which one-half should be composed of Liberals and the other half of Gentlemen who were members of the Derby Government. Now, if the Bill which the hon. Gentleman wished to introduce were in operation, a Government of that sort might have been formed without the sanction and against the wishes of the majority of the people of this country. Nay, some time ago in Canada, by means of such a law as it was now proposed to enact, a Ministry was formed out of the dregs of a former Administration, which had not the confidence of the country. He hoped, therefore, the House would not agree to
 706
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : The question which the hon. Gentleman has brought under our notice is one of considerable importance. Almost every person must feel an interest in it from the manner in which it daily affects him. But to the proposition before us it is impossible for me to give my assent without some further grounds being assigned for it than those adduced on this occasion. The principle to which we are invited to commit ourselves is that tolls on all turnpike roads and bridges in England and Wales should be abolished; that the principle should be at once adopted by the House, and a Commission appointed to inquire how it is to be carried into effect. Let me call attention for a moment to the present position of the turnpike trusts in England as explained by the papers recently laid on the table. If we examine the returns we find that the position of these trusts is in every respect improving. True, the toll revenue has diminished; but, then, the cost of maintaining the roads has also diminished in an equal ratio. The expense of improvements, which in many cases were merely a means of disbursing surplus revenue, has been reduced from £200,000 in 1837 to £40,000 in 1858. The expense of salaries, the law
 708 d. 709 710 711
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he rose to move,
 "That this House will to-morrow resolve itself into a Committee to consider of an humble Address to Her Majesty that She will be graciously pleased to grant the half-pay of £400 a year, unattached pay, to certain general officers who obtained promotion upon half-pay under the provisions of the General Order of the 23rd day of April, 1826, who have since become general officers, and are now receiving only the halt-pay of their regimental rank, and to assure Her Majesty that this House will make good the same." s.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he took a different view of this case to that taken by his right hon. Friend. It was said that no general officer was entitled to full pay unless he had served six years as a field officer; but this case was similar to that in which a field officer was placed on half-pay by reduction. On what principle could it be said that their wives were entitled to the pensions of Major-Generals, and that they themselves were not entitled to the pay of their rank? He had strongly pressed the case on the Treasury.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished to ask if these officers understood that they were not to receive the benefits connected with the rank of general when they went on half-pay. He believed they did not.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he also concurred in recommending the withdrawal of the Motion on the terms stated by the right hon. Baronet.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he quite agreed that nothing was less becoming to a great country like England than periodic or chronic panics about invasion. He had not risen to defend the language that had been used towards a neighbouring Potentate either by the press or by individuals. He had just listened in "another place" to a speech made by a noble and learned Lord (Lord Lyndhurst) upon our national defences, and it was because he believed that the House of Commons could hardly be expected to vote any increase to our already enormous Army Estimates that he thought it essential to have some additional means of permanent defence. This volunteer movement might he made a useful adjunct to the regular services. It was a fashion, indeed, amongst military men to say that volunteers would be of no use, and would in fact be in the way; but, though it might be presumptuous in him, he inclined to a contrary opinion. Besides, what else could be done? The most intelligent classes of our population were at
 693 The Times'
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he was sorry he could not accede to the Motion of the gallant officer, who did not appear very clearly to have understood the objects of the General Order of 1826. No doubt an Order was made to enable officers to go on half pay with superior rank to that which they held at the time of retirement, and without prejudice to their future claims; but that did not exempt them from the operation of regulations which existed then, and which had existed ever since. One of those regulations was that no one should receive the allowance of a general who had not served six years as a field officer. The only exception was that their widows should be entitled to the pensions of general officers' widows, but that very exception showed that the officers were not themselves entitled to the reward of general officers. It might be true that the seven officers referred to in the Motion had each been in the service fifty or sixty years; but the House must remember that there was another side to that question, namely, that some of those gentleman had ever done a day's duty since 1826. He thought, therefore, that to award them the increased allowance would be merely adding to the dead weight of the army without adequate consideration.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : Sir, I think the discussion which has taken place has been a very useful one. There is no doubt great diversity of opinion upon matters of detail, both in this House and in the country on the subject of Volunteer Corps, but at any rate by discussion we shall come at last to know what it is we want. I have been asked whether or not the Government ever contemplated the Volunteer Corps becoming a permanent force. If these corps turn out as useful as I hope and expect, they will become part of our permanent establishment; but when I say that I do not mean that for twenty or even 100 volunteers a single regular soldier will be displaced. We are willing to make as perfect a soldier as we can of every man who is willing to take our pay and subject himself to our discipline. In this country, however, there is very little military spirit. There is much martial but very little military spirit, although even in this House a great change has taken place since the militia was called into existence. Formerly the Army Estimates were discussed very coldly, almost the only speakers being a few military officers; but now we see how much the existence of the militia has spread a military feeling and imparted military knowledge to gentlemen of influence in their respective localities. That feeling, however, has hitherto been confined to the lower and to the upper ranks of society. What we want now is to get the middle classes imbued with an interest in our own means of defence, and I think the Volunteer Corps will be useful in doing that. My right hon. and gallant Friend the late Secretary for War has doubts, on account of the state of our stores, whether it was wise to issue rifles to these corps. If the present state
 696 697 698
 MR. W. E. DUNCOMBE  said, he could not concur either with the noble Lord who had just sat down or with the hon. and gallant Member for Limerick (Colonel Dickson). It was an indisputable fact that from one end of the country to the other extreme anxiety was shown for the establishment of additional means of defence. In proof of that he might mention that at a meeting held recently in the division of the county (North Yorkshire)
 688
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, there could be no doubt that the shores of this country in many parts were very inadequately defended, and that it might be possible for an invasion suddenly to be made where no immediate force could be brought to bear in repelling the attack; but it did not follow that a volunteer rifle corps would be the force best calculated to resist it. If we gave encouragement to them we could not do so under the belief that they would be adequate in themselves to afford all the requisite protection. He agreed that it was extremely doubtful whether the large amount of public money necessary for clothing and arming those rifle corps might not be more judiciously spent. He thought it right in the case of all maritime towns that power should be taken for establishing guns and something like a volunteer maritime artillery for an immediate purpose; but in doing that we ought to take especial care that we did not entirely rely on such a force. Steps should betaken to ensure the concentration of an adequate force on particular points of the coasts in case of a sudden emergency by means of railways and other means of rapid communication, and on which more reliance might be placed than on rifle corps. He found the greatest diversity of opinion prevailing with respect to those corps, and that diversity appeared also to obtain in that House. At the same time it could not be doubted that something must be done in the matter. It was clear at the present time the Government could not supply a sufficient store of arms for all the corps formed and forming throughout the country; and he thought all that was reasonable and necessary for the Government to do was to furnish adequate materials simply for practice. The subject, however, required to be sifted, and he trusted that soon they would be enabled to arrive at some definite conclusion.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he had given notice of his intention to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the operation and administration of the laws for the relief of the poor in Great Britain and Ireland. The late President of the Poor Law Board had also moved for a Committee to inquire into the operation of certain Acts for the relief of the poor. The Committee was appointed, but it was, in his opinion, impossible to proceed with that inquiry satisfactorily under the terms of the reference. When Parliament was dissolved the labours of that Committee came to an end. As the present President of the Poor Law Board was only appointed two days ago, he should not be doing him justice in proceeding with the present Motion. That right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Villiers) was one of the most Liberal Members of the House of Commons, and ranked with those who represented the enlarged opinions ascribed to hon. Gentlemen who sat below the gangway, and who were called "advanced Liberals." He trusted therefore that the right hon. Gentleman would be of opinion that the Committee ought to address itself to the whole subject of the Poor Laws, and to the manner in which the Poor Laws were administered. If it were proposed
 656
 MR. B. COCHRANE  said, his only fear was that this Bill would be totally inadequate to meet the fearful tyranny which had just been disclosed to the House. He could scarcely believe that 8,000 persons had been committed to prison in one year for non-appearance. It was true that in those cases the Judge ostensibly committed for contempt of Court, but then everything was construed into a contempt. If a debtor did not appear, it was contempt of Court; if he could not pay the instalments which the Judge had fixed, that also was contempt of Court. Years ago he brought before that House the case of a man committed from a County Court, who was treated as a felon, and had his head shaved, in which condition he had to return to society on his liberation, after an imprisonment of three weeks. Of all tyrannies a legalized tyranny was the worst. It appeared to him that it would be better to introduce a Bill which would convey more strongly than the measure of the hon. and learned Gentleman the disapprobation which they must all feel of
 675
 MR. STEUART  said, that he would withdraw his Motion, and gave notice that on the second reading he would move for a Select Committee on the subject.
 MR. STEUART  said, he would explain the reasons which induced him to take the unusual course of moving that the first reading of this Bill be postponed. He had less difficulty in doing so, because an objection of the same kind had been taken to Bills of this kind by the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Commissioner of Woods and Forests (Mr. FitzRoy). The right hon. Gentleman, however, took that objection at the second reading, and it was then said that he should have taken the objection earlier. This Bill was for the purpose of enabling a clergyman of the Episcopal Church in Scotland to hold a benefice and officiate as a clergyman of the Church of England, and he objected to it because it was doing away by a private Bill with the public statutes for the regulation of these matters. A private Bill of this character was exceptionable in itself, but in the present instance there were peculiar circumstances why this mode of obtaining relief from disabilities ought not to be resorted to. The relief had been generally granted on the belief that the doctrines of the Episcopal Church of Scotland and the United Church of England and Ireland were the same. Whether that were so or not he would not attempt to discuss, but circumstances of a very painful character occurred last year, in which the promoter of the present Bill was to some extent concerned. A case was raised against the Rev. Patrick R. Cheyne, a clergyman of the Scottish Episcopal Church, for erroneous doctrines, and in the course of that case it came out that there was a party in that Church which held doctrines widely different from those of the Church of England.
 651 per incuriam
 MR. NEWDEGATE  observed, that there appeared to be no father to this Bill. He could not discover who had the charge of it in the House of Lords. He would only consent to the first reading on the understanding that it was merely  pro formâ,
 MR. SELWYN  said, he wished to offer an observation to the House on a difficulty which had arisen in the formation of the Rifle Corps, but which was overlooked in the circulars both of the late and of the present Government, and which he thought might be removed without any expense to the country. The right hon. Gentleman had imposed as a condition upon the supply of arms to Rifle Corps that they should be in possession of a ground for practice. Now, he did not speak without experience on this subject, for the University which he had the honour to represent had taken an active part in this movement, and, in conjunction with the town, had formed what he had no doubt would be a model rifle club and a crack rifle corps. But a difficulty had arisen with respect to obtaining proper ground for practice. It was important that the ground should he in the neighbourhood of the town, and yet it generally happened that the ground in such a situation was in the hands of many different landlords and tenants, and it was scarcely probable but that some one or other of them would insist upon exorbitant terms before he would allow the Rifle Corps the use of his ground. What he would suggest, therefore, for the consideration of the Government was, whether it would not be advisable to bring in a short Bill, giving the Secretary at War the same powers of acquiring ground suitable for the practice of rifle companies, as were now given in the case of railway companies or Her Ma-
 699
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the House was aware that information had reached this country that a certain degree of excitement prevailed at two or three stations, and some discontent more generally, on the part of the soldiers of the East India Company, on being transferred to the service of the Queen without any fresh bounty, a transfer which they regarded in the light of a re-enlistment. He believed that the claim was totally unfounded, and that from the investigation which was now going on it appeared that those men had all forgotten the oath they had taken. On one occasion when that oath was shown to one of them he declared that he had no reason to complain, and that bad he known its terms he should not have acted as he had done. The matter was the subject of an inquiry still pending. He was happy to say that the discontent on the part of the men was very much subsiding, but he could give no more decisive answer until he knew the result of that inquiry.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that he could not say that any practical steps had been taken for the organization of a local Bengal army, the question involving a great number of considerations and matters of detail. With regard to the other question asked, he was not in a position to state that any of the levies in question had been discontinued or disbanded. Any measure on that subject must be taken with all duo regard both to the interests and the feelings of the men who stood by us so gallantly during the mutiny.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he thought the House would agree that his hon. Friend had done full justice to the very respectable gentleman whom he had taken as his client, and whose case he had brought under their consideration. The hon. Member was quite right in anticipating that he was likely to oppose the renewal of this, which was an old colonial question well known in the Colonial Office, well known in the House of Lords, and well known also to the Members of that House. But it stood, he must beg the House to observe, on an entirely different footing now from any which it had before occupied; and he must say that his hon. Friend had shown great gallantry in coming forward to take up the case of Mr. Ryland at the eleventh hour. The fact was, that the case was now in a totally different position from that in which it was at the time when the papers relating to it had been published, or when the Resolutions had been carried by a very narrow majority in the House of Lords by the Duke of Argyll. A reference had since then been made to an impartial authority, and an award delivered, which was carried out jointly by the Home and Colonial Administration. But, notwithstanding that, that award had been, he was
 664 665 666 667 668
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he did not think the difficulty of substituting rates for tolls was so great as the hon. Member seemed to think. That plan had long been tried in the large county of Argyll with perfect success. He would suggest that the hon. Member should alter the wording of bis Motion, so as to assimilate it to the Scotch Commission; in other words, that there should be an inquiry into the possibility of substituting an equitable mode of assessment for the system of tolls. The decision arrived at by that Commission would not prejudice the case as regarded England, and in his opinion, therefore, the Motion, with the Amendment he suggested, should be agreed to.
 MR. GEORGE CLIVE  said, that the Government had no objection to the introduction of the Bill. On the contrary, they were of opinion that it was the duty of the Legislature to attempt to devise some remedy for the evils to which his hon. and learned Friend had directed their attention. But at the same time he must add that he did not believe that the House and those learned Gentlemen who were in the habit of commenting on the merits of the County Court Judges generally possessed that practical acquaintance with their proceedings which would entitle them to speak authoritatively upon such a subject. He agreed with his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Wallingford (Mr. Malins), that it was very much a question whether or not they should ever subject parties to imprisonment for debt. That was a point which was fairly open for consideration. But he rose principally for the purpose of explaining what was the mode of proceeding adopted by the County Court Judges
 676
 MR. HADFIELD  said, it was high time that all the distinctions which rendered Bills of this kind necessary should cease. It was but another evidence of the evils arising from a State establishment of religion.
 Mr. HADFIELD  said, he rose to move for leave to introduce a Bill to enable serjeants-at-law, barristers, solicitors, and attorneys to practise in the High Court of Admiralty. A similar Bill had twice before been introduced, and had been twice printed, and upon the last occasion its progress was only prevented by the close of the Session. The present hon. and learned Attorney General had put his name upon the back of one of the former Bills, and given his assent to the principles of the one which was now proposed. The principle involved had been admitted in the opening of the Probate Court to other practitioners than proctors, and the Bill only sought to remove the last vestige of monopoly in the administration of justice. The only question that could be raised was as to compensation for the proctors, but that was a point to be discussed in Committee, and, considering that the proctors had already received £69,000 compensation under the Probate Act, and were to receive more on account of the opening of the Divorce Court, he did not think they had any reason to complain, and he should certainly oppose the grant of any further compensation. With these observations he would conclude by asking for leave to introduce the Bill.
 MR. HOPE  said, the experience which he had acquired with respect to the question under discussion in Scotland did not lead him to form an opinion favourable to its being met in the manner proposed by the hon. Member opposite. In the county with which he was connected the attempt had been made to establish a system of rates instead of a system of tolls, but although everybody seemed to agree as to the expediency of abolishing the tolls it was impossible to obtain any general concurrence of opinion as to the mode in which the rates should be levied. Still he thought tolls an unfair tax, for in some cases persons using the roads for miles never paid a farthing, while those who used it for half a mile were compelled to pay a very heavy toll. The substitution of a rate would dispense altogether with the expenses of collection and many other annoyances incidental to the present system, while at the same time many questions—such, for instance, as to whether land was to bear the whole burden, or horses a part, and other questions of a similar nature—would arise, and require solution. He thought it better to suspend legislation on the subject till they had ascertained the result of the late inquiry which had been instituted on the question.
 MR. BRISCOE  said, it appeared from the Returns that the number of persons committed for non-appearance was 8,361, while the number of those committed for fraud, alleged and proved, was only sixty-nine.
 MR. BRISCOE  said, that the difficulty in dealing with the Rifle Volunteer Corps arose from the uncertainty as to the intentions of the Government. Neither the late nor the present Government had stated whether the proposed force was to assume a permanent character. It was supposed by the public that the Rifle Corps were only recognized for a temporary purpose, and to meet a threatened invasion. Now, he was not one of those who believed that the Emperor of the French meditated an invasion of this country. He had heard with great pain and regret the remarks made in "another place" upon a friendly and neighbouring Power. He had no hesitation in saying that the Emperor of the French had behaved with perfect
 689
 MR. BONHAM CARTER  said, he objected to the laxity with which Commissions had of late been granted. During the last twelve years a great deal of good had been done by private legislation, all new Turnpike Bills being now drawn on
 712
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it was irregular on the part of the hon. and gallant Member, and contrary to the rules of the House to make a speech and not to conclude with a Motion.
 MR. SPEAKER  inquired whether the hon. and gallant Member had not a Motion to submit to the House.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to enable railway companies to settle their differences with other companies by arbitration. He was quite ready to answer any questions with respect to the Bill, but should at present confine himself to stating that its object was not to interfere with proceedings in Parliament, or with any law, but merely to enable railway companies to settle their differences with other companies by arbitration, a power which they did not possess under the existing statutes relating to railways.
 CAPTAIN LEICESTER VERNON  replied that he had no Motion to make.
 CAPTAIN LEICESTER VERNON  said, that in the notice paper there appeared in his name the following notice of Motion:—
 "That this House do resolve itself into a Committee to consider of an humble Address to be presented to Her Majesty, praying that she will be graciously pleased to give direction that the benefits conferred by the Royal Warrant of the 17th day of December, 1855, upon Regimental Quartermasters retiring subsequent to the date of the declaration of war with Russia be extended, so far only as the honorary rank of captain is concerned, to those regimental Quartermasters who completed the period of service specified in the Warrant, but who had retired previous to that date." 678
 MR. BLACKBURN  expressed a hope that the hon. Member (Mr. Steuart) would withdraw his Motion and take the subject up again on the second reading.
 MR. MALINS  said, he rose to second the Motion. He considered the House was very much indebted to the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth for the manne in which he had brought the subject forward. For himself, the practice of the County Courts being out of his beat, unless he had heard the hon. and learned Gentleman's statement he could not have believed that such things were going on in this country. It was ore of the misfortunes of the County Courts that the business was carried on without the controlling check of a bar. It was carried on in the country, and it was therefore desirable that the proceedings should be most vigilantly watched. It did excite his astonishment that upwards of 700 persons should have been committed by one Judge in one year for non-appearance, caused generally by poverty or ignorance. If the proposed Bill passed into law it would be a great public advantage, although for his part he wont even farther, and said that the whole power of imprisonment ought to be most carefully guarded. In 1838 he rejoiced at the measures by which the abolition of arrest on mesne process was effected. Up to that time a creditor, merely on an affidavit of a £20 debt, could seize the body of the debtor; and he remembered hearing Gentlemen, many of them still living, argue that if this power were abolished, England's commercial greatness would be at an end. Now, no man would venture to point out a single mischief that had arisen from that abolition of arrest on mesne process. He contended that the abolition had been productive of signal benefit; and he desired to see the day when imprisonment for debt should be abolished altogether. Two courses were now open to a judgment creditor in the superior courts. Either he could issue a  fi. fa. 674
 MR. COLLIER  said, he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to limit the power of imprisonment for small debts exercised by the County Court Judges. Having been one of those who had assisted in the formation of County Courts, and who had frequently advocated the
 669 "That if the party so summoned shall not attend as required by such summons, and shall not allege a sufficient excuse for not attending, or shall, if attending, refuse to be sworn, or to disclose any of the things aforesaid, or if he shall not make answer touching the same to the satisfaction of such Judge, or if he shall appear to such Judge, either by the examination of the party or by any other evidence, that such party, if a defendant, in incurring the debt or liability which is the subject of the action in which judgment has been obtained, has obtained credit from the plaintiff under false pretences, or by means of fraud or breach of trust, or has wilfully contracted such debt or liability without having had at the same time a reasonable expectation of being able to pay or discharge the same, or shall have made or caused to be made any gift, delivery, or transfer of any property, or shall have charged, removed, or concealed the same, with intent to defraud his creditors or any of them,…. it shall be lawful for such Judge, if he shall think fit, to order that any such party may be com-
 670 671 "But the point to which special attention is called is the fact that, although there is such a pleasing decrease in the number of criminal offences, there is a very large number of committals on orders from the County Court. The consequence is, that the expenses of the county, and he might add of the country generally, are largely increased. A man who was taken into custody once, was supposed to satisfy the debt he had incurred; and it was seldom the case that he could get out without some liquidation or satisfaction of the debt; but under this statute that is not the case, and the number of committals for debt has very largely increased. The expense of these debtors in this county averaged, he understood, 10 s d. s. d. s. s. d. s. d. s. 672 673
 MR. COLLIER  said, he had to thank the House for the reception given to his
 677
 MR. COLLIER  said, that the hon. and learned Member for Dundalk (Mr. Bowyer), on his part had mistaken the doctrine of international law. But however that might be, he understood the argument of the hon. and learned Member for Southampton (Mr. D. Seymour) to amount to this, that if other countries left their shipping to be dealt with according to the principles of international law we should do the same. If our merchants contravened the law of nations by fitting out their ships for transports let them be dealt with by the law of nations, let them be seized as prizes, but let us not interfere by a law of our own, in a manner that other countries did not deal with their shipping. If the question were whether we should legislate at all upon the subject—whether Parliament should assent to such an Act as was passed in 1819—he (Mr. Collier) would be inclined to oppose such legislation; but he felt the force of the observations of the right hon. Home Secretary that such a law being in existence, and hostilities being in progress, by any legislative interference at this time we should lay ourselves open to the imputation of abandoning our neutral position. He hoped, therefore, that the hon. and learned Member for Southampton would not press his Bill.
 MR. INGHAM  remarked, that in former times, when the power of the Crown was greater than now, the existing restriction might have been necessary; hut now, when the power of the several Estates was more equally balanced, unless it was felt that there really was danger to the independence of the House, he thought they should go into a consideration of the measure. In times of emergency difficulties might arise in carrying on the affairs of the Government under the present system, and he thought it would be wise to make the proposed attempt to aid the Government. They saw at the present moment the inconvenience resulting from the absence of a member of the Government (Mr. Milner Gibson), who had already received the approbation of his constituents to his acceptance of office in the Government.
 MR. TORRENS  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for India, whether, with reference to the report, dated the 7th of March last, of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the organization of the Indian Army, any steps have been taken to effect the formation of a permanent local army in Bengal, and for the gradual disbandment or reduction of the levies temporarily taken into British pay during the mutiny of the Native troops in that Presidency?
 MR. LAING  said, that the late Government, before they entered into the contract with the Galway Company, had made a condition that a certificate should be supplied shewing that the whole capital of the undertaking and the amount was paid up. The whole capital was £500,000, and they had received a certificate from the secretary of the company that a capital of £212,490 had been subscribed, of which £169,447 had been paid up. Of that amount £151,000 consisted of paid-up shares, taken in part payment of ships purchased by or to be built for the company. This left an amount of £61,450 of subscribed capital, of which £18,447 was paid up as representing the money subscription at the date of that certificate, namely, the 15th of April last. What had been done since that date he had no means of knowing.
 MR. ALCOCK  said, that the Royal Commission which he was about to ask had already been granted with the most satisfactory results in the cases of Dublin, London, Ireland, and Scotland. He had therefore a right, be thought, to ask it for England and Wales generally, and though he had no reason to expect the consent of the Government, he thought it could not very fairly be denied. The present bonded debt on the turnpike tolls of England and Wales amounted to £5,236,939. The aggregate amount of the income of the turnpike trusts was at present £1,024,382, but the amount paid in tolls by the people of this country for Turnpike tolls on roads and bridges was no less than a million and a half, so that the persons who rented the tolls got something like 33 per cent of profit. The plan which had been adopted in Ireland to get rid of turnpike tolls was to put the charge of maintaining the roads on the common law of the country. It was a principle of common law there, as it was of common sense everywhere, that the charge of repairing the highways should be borne by the owners and occupiers of land. The annual rateable value of the real property in England chargeable by law with
 707 d.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that did not form any part of the plan. Under the plan, as it stood, it would be the first vote that would be asked in the next Session of Parliament.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the attention of Her Majesty's Government had been called to the contract entered into with the Atlantic Steam Navigation Company for carrying the mails between Galway and the United States; but the Government had not arrived at any conclusion with regard to the latter part of the question, namely, "whether they considered it advisable in the interest of the public that the said contract should, under certain conditions, be cancelled." But in regarding this question, Her Majesty's Government had necessarily had under their view other proceedings with respect to contracts, and indeed the whole course of proceedings with respect to these contracts which had grown imperceptibly into a system; and the Government were of opinion that with respect to that system it would be very desirable that it should be bought fully under the impartial view of the House of Commons, and that the House should, without the smallest prejudice to any particular instance, have an opportunity of examining the whole matter for the purpose of giving their advice upon it. He would, therefore, give notice that on Thursday he would move the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the manner in which contracts extending over periods of years had from time to time been formed or modified by Her Majesty's Government with various Steam Packet Companies for carrying the mails beyond the limits of the United Kingdom; likewise to inquire into any agreements or other arrangements which had been adopted at the public charge, actual or prospective, for purposes of telegraphic communication beyond seas, and to report their opinion thereon to the House, together with any recommendations as to rules to be observed hereafter by the Government in making contracts for services which had not yet been sanctioned by Parliament, or which extended over a series of years.
 MR. BAXTER  said, he wished to ask whether any Vote would be taken in the present Session?
 MR. BAXTER  said, he had to ask if the attention of Her Majesty's Government had been called to the contract entered into with the Atlantic Steam Navigation
 654
 MR. GREGORY  said, he rose to move for "a Select Committee to inquire into the arrangements under which Mr. G. H. Ryland was induced to resign the patent office of Clerk of the Council in Canada; whether that step was taken under a distinct guarantee from the Imperial Lord High Commissioner, Lord Sydenham; and, if so, whether that guarantee had ever been fully and fairly carried out by the Imperial Government." He regretted, for the sake of Mr. Ryland, that it had fallen to his (Mr. Gregory's) lot to bring the present Motion before the House, as it would have been more satisfactorily dealt with by the hon. Gentleman who last Session called the attention of the House to the subject, but who, he regretted to say, was not a Member of the present Parliament. There were many present who recollected the industry and perseverance with which that hon. Gentleman had exerted himself in that matter. He referred to Captain Vivian. The way in which the Motion came into his hands was, that his gallant Friend had requested him to look into the papers connected with the case, and begged of him, if he thought it one of extreme hardship, he would act for him and bring it before the House. At that time be knew nothing of Mr. Ryland, but, as requested by his hon. and gallant Friend, he looked over every one of the papers, and could not but come to the conclusion that the case was one of extreme injustice; and although he was averse to bringing individual cases before the House, yet when a denial of justice, such as met him here, was persevered in for so long a time, and when it was impossible to have recourse to any other tribunal than Parliament, he felt bound to conquer his reluctance, and considered he was justified in asking for a Committee, to inquire into, give a verdict on, and effect a settlement of, this distressing case. He would enter as briefly as possible into the circumstances of the case, but as they extended over a period of eigh-
 657 658 659 660 661 "I have always thought and felt that yours was a case of peculiar hardship, and I have never failed when I have had an opportunity to say so, and to bear testimony to the correctness of your interpretation of the agreement between yourself and Lord Sydenham." 662 663
 MR. MONSELL  said, he wished to ask whether it was any part of the condition on which this contract was made that any portion of the subscribed capital should be paid up; if so, what amount, and whether the condition had been complied with?
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  seconded the Motion.
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for India whether he has received any information regarding the excitement which has prevailed among the late East India Company's European regiments, consequent upon the withholding of the alternative of re-enlisting with new bounty or of being discharged, on the occasion of the transfer of their services to the Crown; and if so, whether he has reason to believe that such excitement no longer exists.
 MR. WRIGHTSON  said, he wished to move for leave to bring in a Bill to alter and amend the Act 6  Anne, 705
 SIR BROOK BRIDGES  said, he believed that the inadvertence, as it was called, in framing the Catholic Relief Act of 1829 was no inadvertence, but an exclusion which proceeded on a full knowledge of the circumstances of the case, Considering, however, the feeling manifested by the House he would not oppose the Motion, though he felt he should have been wrong in allowing his silence to be construed into an approval of a total alteration of the principles on which the great men who were instrumental in passing that measure acted. He believed they had their reasons, independently of considerations arising out of the distribution of church patronage, for the exclusion in question, and that those reasons were still in full force.
 MR. BOWYER  said, his objection to the Motion of his hon. and learned Friend was that he proposed to repeal provisions of the Foreign Enlistment Act, which simply gave the sanction of the statute Jaw to the law of nations. The hon. and learned Gentleman had fallen into an error with regard to that law, for he laid it down that the law of nations only forbad the equipping of privateers or armed vessels to take part in hostilities between foreign nations, but the principle of law which applied to such vessels applied equally to the equipment of transports and storeships for the purpose of aiding any of the parties to a war between States with which this country was at peace. The hon. and learned Gentleman proposed the repeal of the Statute Law on the ground that such repeal would prevent England from being involved in difficulties which might peril her neutrality, hut he thought such a course would have an entirely different effect, for it would render the Executive of this country powerless to prevent breaches of international law. It was true that vessels employed as transports or storeships would be subject to be taken as prizes by the Powers engaged in hostilities, but he thought the process of taking ships in the open seas by force, and having them condemned as prizes, was liable to much more inconvenience, and was much more likely to produce unpleasant feelings with foreign Powers than the simple process of providing by our own law that international law should not be violated in this country. The existing statute law enabled the Government to step in and to prevent breaches of inter-
 704 in limine,
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, there were certainly great objections to Bills of this kind, enabling individuals who could afford the expense to avail themselves of exceptions to the general rule. He thought that in all such cases as these admission should be given to the Church under a general law, and not by private Bill. But he would beg leave to suggest to the hon. Member for Cambridge that he should allow the Bill to be a read a first time,  pro formâ,
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he could not but express his regret that the hon. and gallant Member seemed desirous to throw cold water upon this subject. No doubt the hon. and gallant Member was a great military authority, but he would forgive him if he said that at his (Sir John Shelley's) time of life he felt no great respect for great military authorities as far as progress or improvement was concerned. Had the country been left to them, our soldiers would now be armed with the old-fashioned ''brown Bess." He thought the House was much indebted to his hon. Friend for bringing forward this Motion. It might be true that there were no more than 5000 volunteers at present but the fact was that nobody knew how to act. There would be no lack of men when they knew better how to set to work, and he
 695
 MR. PALK  said, that on rising to move an Address to Her Majesty with reference to the arms, accoutrements, and ammunition to be furnished to volunteer rifle corps, he wished to state that he had received communications from various parts of the country, from which it was evident that the statements made by the Government with regard to their intentions on this subject had occasioned universal dismay and disappointment. The circular issued by his right hon. and gallant Friend below him (General Peel) had been very popular, and the utmost readiness was evinced in rallying to the call for Volunteer Corps, because it was felt that that circular recognized the right of Englishmen to arm and organize themselves for the defence of their country—a right which was recognized in all foreign nations, and even enforced in some. The desire to adopt this course was not attri-
 679 680 681 "That this House will, upon Tuesday next, resolve itself into a Committee to consider of an humble Address to Her Majesty, praying that she will be graciously pleased to give directions that the necessary arms, accoutrements, and ammunition be furnished to Volunteer Rifle Corps, under the provisions of the Act 44th  Geo. 682
 MR. PALK  said, he wished to explain, that in referring to the expenditure of money upon fortifications, he had only intended to say that no sums had been expended in fortifying that portion of the coast which was wholly unprotected. Having in a great measure attained the object with which he brought this subject, he would, with the leave of the House, withdraw his Motion.
 MR. JACKSON  seconded the Motion.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said, he wished to bring in a Bill to amend an Act passed in the tenth year of His Majesty King  Geo. 714 "That the Chairman be directed to move the House, That leave be given to bring in a Bill to amend an Act of the tenth year of King George the Fourth, for the Relief of His Majesty's Roman Catholic Subjects."
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the question involved in the second reading of this Bill was not simply whether, under proper guards, an appeal upon questions of fact should be allowed, but whether the procedure in criminal cases should be assimilated  in omnibus 773 nisi ex debito justitiœ
 MR. DILLWYN : Sir, the question now before the House is one which has excited very considerable interest throughout the country at large, as is shown by the number of petitions which have been presented both for and against it; and that this should be the case is not to be wondered at when we consider the number of endowed schools which exist in every part of the country. The Charity Commissioners have, I believe, reported upon somewhere about 3,000, and the amount of their annual income has been estimated by Mr. Horace Mann at not much less than £500,000. Now, from the nature of many of the petitions against the Bill, it is evident that the Church party consider it to be a measure directed against the Church, and an attempt to wrest from them the endowments which properly belong to that Establishment. I, however, disclaim any such intention. With regard to very many, probably the great majority, of these schools there can be no doubt as to the intentions of the founders, and that they were, that education, in accordance with the doctrines and teaching of the Church of England, should be given in them. Thus one directed that the Ten Commandments, the Articles of Faith, and the Creed, should be taught; another, that the children should be brought up in the understanding of the Catechism, as set forth by public authority, the Psalter and Book of Common Prayer; and in others, the Church Prayers were directed to be read. Now, in schools where the founder has given instructions such as these, there can be no doubt but that he intended the schools to be in connection with the Church of England; and I, for one, have no desire to meddle with them by the present Bill, or to attempt to wrest them from that Church. In proof of this, I may say that I was by no means favourable to the Bill brought forward in the House of Lords last year, which proposed to enact that no person should be disqualified from being
 717 718 v. "In my judgment this scheme does not provide for religious instruction in the sense in which the expression ought to be understood. Its effect is, not that it does not provide for religious instruction according to the Church of England, but that it does not provide for what I am able to consider religious instruction at all. If education, of course including religious instruction, is to be provided for, I apprehend it must be according to the doctrines and principles of the English Church. I know no other standard or guide to which the Court can resort.… If education is to be part of the scheme, it is clear, in my judgment, that whatever may be the particular course of instruction pursued, or whatever maybe the course as to the exemption of any child from any particular points of instruction, the masters, mistresses, and teachers must be members of the Church of England; and that no other course of religious instruction should be adopted than such as is in conformity with the Church of England." "After the arguments I have heard, and looking to the whole scheme, frame, and foundation of charities of this description, it appears to me impossible to hold that any school founded, as this has been, by one of the Sovereigns of this country for the purpose of teaching grammar, could he other than a school not only for teaching grammar, but also for sound religious education;
 719 "A great deal might be said in support of the proposition, that foundations for instruction of any kind, at least down to the time of Car. I., involved necessarily religious teaching—(p. 567.) If it were necessary in the present case to lay down any rule on that subject, the utmost I could do in point of jurisdiction would be to say distinctly that every child must be taught the Scriptures, and every child must have religious instruction generally; and that such religious instruction must be by a master being himself a member of the Church of England. That, it is true, would involve the difficulty as to Dissenters.… But that difficulty must have existed in the case of the Bury School, and in all the other schools. It is what the Court has done in every case; and I certainly shall not be the first to say that any system of education can embrace a true notion of education that leaves a blank in this respect, and leaves it open to a considerable portion of the school to remain without any religious instruction whatever. It may be a very proper question for the Legislature to deal with, as in King Edward's School at Birmingham, when the Legislature dealt with it as they thought fit; and I am informed that the alteration has acted beneficially. It is quite open to the Legislature to deal in the same manner with this school. 720 "I fear there is no prospect of anything being done in reference to what we call 'National Schools.' Last week many pupils were sent back from the one in Whittlesea because they were not prepared to pay sixpence on Monday morning, in lieu of a penny, as they did not attend church or church school on Sundays. A penny per week the poor children who will go to the church on Sunday, pay.'" "Harrison's Charity is applied to the education of a certain number of boys and girls, and to the distribution of blankets among the poor. It was augmented by the bequest of the late Joseph Peckover, a member of the Society of Friends. Within my recollection, two of the Trustees were Dissenters. The Masters and Mistresses by whom the children were instructed, were both Dissenters, and no restriction was imposed as to the admission of children. Of late years, the Trustees have been chosen exclusively from the Church of England. The educational fund is appropriated exclusively in aid of the national school in which a rule exists that no child attending a Dissenting place of worship in the morning or afternoon, shall receive its benefit." 721 722 s. 723 "I forward herewith a, petition in favour of Dillwyn's Bill from the Trustees of —— School:"— "'The Charity was founded by a Dissenter, and a majority of the trustees have always been Dissenters, but there is nothing in the deed to show that it is not a Church school, and they are directed to appoint a 'God-fearing Christian person' to be schoolmaster, always preferring 'persons of sobriety, good morals, and character, who will pay strict attention to the morals and religious education of the children,' so that according to the recent decision five out of seven of
 724 Vic. "I have heard of objections being made to a legislative construction of words, but when a. rule of construction which plainly violates the lawful intention of testators has been established in the Courts of Law, I know no way of correcting the abuse (for such it is), but by legislative interposition." 725
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he must admit that the speech of the hon. Gentleman had been exceedingly temperate and very fair; and he admitted that, looking at the Bill, and taking it by itself, it could not be said that the proposals of the Bill, as gathered from the words, were very extreme. He had felt some difficulty as to the course which he should take, and it was not without some hesitation that he had come to the conclusion of
 726 727 animus 728 729
 MR. PULLER  in seconding the Amendment said, having the honour to serve on the Committee of the National Society, I have thought it my duty to examine this question, and must therefore ask the attention of the House for a short time. So far as my hon. Friend the Member for Swansea has stated the actual decisions of the Courts on the subject of Endowed Schools. I believe he has stated them correctly; but when he proceeded to deal with hypothetical cases, I think I shall be able to satisfy the House, that he has stated that to be the law which is really not the law. But first of all let me speak of the Ilminster case, out of which all this discussion has arisen. That case has been treated as if the Lords Justices, overruling the decision of the Master of the Rolls, had established some new doctrine highly injurious and offensive to the Dissenters. But the fact is that, as regards the general law of Endowed Schools, there was no difference of opinion between the Courts. The Master of the Rolls, equally with the Lords Justices, held that the Ilminster School was a Church school, and he did not dispute that, if the trust had related only to the school, Dissenters must have been excluded from the trust. The point of difference was this, that the founder having declared that any surplus which should remain after providing for the school should go to the repairs of roads and bridges, in which Dissenters are of course as much interested as Churchmen, the Master of the Rolls thought that that circumstance took the case out of the general rule, and that, being a mixed trust, Dissenters were admissible as trustees, while the Lords Justices held that, the school being the primary object of the founder's bounty, and the roads and bridges only a subordinate object, the character of the trust must be determined by the former, and that therefore Dissenters must be excluded. Well, that was a question as to the application of the law on which there might be a fair difference of opinion, but
 730 731 v. v. 732 "No endowed school or educational charity shall be deemed to have been founded for the purpose of affording religious instruction according to the doctrines of the Church of England exclusively, unless from the language of the instrument founding or endowing the charity it shall appear that such was the intention of the founder thereof." 733 734 735 v. George 736 William Mary, 737 "The Master in selecting new trustees has with my entire concurrence, whenever the charity was for Church purposes, selected as trustees persons who were members of the Church of England. It has been thought proper that, when the object of the trust has been exclusively connected with one religious party, the trustees who were to have the control over it should be of the same religious party." 738 739 740 741
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : I have listened with much pleasure to the speech by which the Amendment has been introduced by the hon. Member for Stamford (Sir Stafford Northcote), and I can assure the House that if the law as it now stands admitted of this question being dealt with by the Court of Chancery in the same spirit of liberality, there would be no need of legislation upon this subject. But it is because that power does not exist, because there are artificial presumptions and rules of construction binding upon courts of justice, and compelling them to administer these charities in a manner which, if I am not mistaken, this House will not think consistent with public interests, that I think some further legislation is required. I may say, too, that this Bill is justified by the complaints which have been made by many Judges who have had to administer the law upon this subject, that they have been compelled to approve schemes of exclusion founded upon principles incompatible with enlarged views and a sense of public utility. Admitting that there might be a necessity to alter the language of the Bill, that the difficulty of laying down precise rules upon the subject of whether Dissenters are to be excluded or not is great, still those are matters which can be considered by a Committee of this House, or, if it be preferred, by a Select Committee upstairs. I will endeavour briefly to point out the necessity for some legislation. There are certain artificial rules and presumptions which prevail in the Court of Chancery upon these subjects. First, it is assumed that all educational charities founded before the Reformation must now be of necessity confined exclusively to members of the Church of England. That is an arbitrary principle founded on the presumption that, as at that time no difference of religious opinion was permitted by law, these educational foundations must be assumed to be intended wholly for the benefit of members of the English Church, in its then Romish form, and now to belong to the same English Church in its Reformed and Protestant character. That, I think, is an arbitrary inference which the House, I hope, will not consider it desirable to perpetuate. By parity of reasoning the next construction, by which the
 742 743 "That religious instruction being a, necessary part of education in a grammar school, and there being reason to believe that such instruction was originally intended to be according to the doctrines and principles of the Church of England, the Court could not sanction the insertion of any clause in the scheme exempting those scholars whose parents conscientiously objected thereto from receiving such instruction." 744 745
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, that the subject which the hon. Member for Swansea had brought under the consideration of the House in this Bill was one the importance of which could not be overrated. For his part, having had considerable opportunities of examining the question, he should have been very glad if, instead of introducing a Bill so open to objection as that before them, the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Dillwyn) had brought forward a proposition for an inquiry into what he (Sir Hugh Cairns) believed to be the only just ground of complaint that at present existed as regarded the Dissenters in this country. His hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General held out the hope that in Committee this Bill might be altered to what it was not now; but the second reading was the stage of the Bill in which its principle ought to be decided. His hon. and learned Friend had laid down two or three principles, every one of which might be made the subject of a Bill, but any one of which was inconsistent with the others. His hon. and learned Friend had spoken of the great hardships inflicted in the Ilminster case, where for 150 years trustees had
 746 747 748 749 750 "That religious instruction shall be given by the master by reading the Scriptures and the Liturgy, Catechism, and Articles of the Church of England, to such of the boys whose parents are in communion with the Church of England, and to such other boys whose parents or person  in, loco parentis
 MR. MELLOR  said, that although he thought that the Bill was ambiguous in language, and possibly open to objection in point of form, he felt indisposed to vole against its second reading, since the necessary Amendment might be made in Committee. The principle decided by the Dissenters' Chapel Act was that where a sect had possessed a chapel twenty-five years their right should be recognized without reference to the original foundation, and this settled a vexed question between the Presbyterians and the orthodox Dissenters, and did not at all affect the Church. The Ilminster case had been alluded to, and he was glad to find that the principle decided in that case was not defended by any one. In the reign of Edward VI., before the establishment of the liturgical formularies at present in use in the Church of England, two persons, inhabitants of the town of Ilrainster "desiring the virtuous education of youth in literature and godly learning, whereby they should better know their duty to God and to the King's Majesty," assigned certain property to trustees, in order to provide "a discreet person, of good behaviour," &c, as schoolmaster. The deed then provided that the surplus should be devoted to the repairing of roads and watercourses, and also for the appointment of new trustees, who were to be "honest persons of the parish of Ilminster." Here there was no question as to the teaching—the schoolmasters had always belonged to the Church of England. The simple question was, whether Dissenters could, by construction of the context, be brought within the description of "honest persons of the parish of Ilminster;" and the Lords Justices held that they were constrained to decide that this being a foundation established in the reign of Edward VI., Dissenters could not come within the denomination of "honest persons." For 150 years Churchmen and Dissenters had been joined in the administration of the trust funds, and the surplus funds had been applied to the highways and watercourses; yet the decision was, that although there was a very large surplus thus applied, yet that because it was connected with a trust for teaching "godly learning" they were constrained to decide that Dissenters were not "honest persons" within the meaning of the foundation deed. Anything more injudicious or more fatal to the interests of religion and of the Church of England than the conduct of the clergyman who promoted that suit he could
 752
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that he should have had no difficulty in coming to a conclusion if of the two speeches, delivered by the late Solicitor General and the present Attorney General, he had only heard one and not the other. The present Bill professed to be introduced to mitigate the effects of certain decisions of the Court of Chancery, and two most eminent and learned practitioners in that Court, either qualified to guide this House by his own opinions, so entirely differed with respect to the effect of the decisions of the Court, that he confessed that he felt the utmost difficulty in coming to any conclusion on the subject, and he doubted not the House was in a similar position. As he understood, it was plainly stated by the hon. proposer of the Bill, who explained it in a
 753 754
 MR. A. MILLS  said, that if he could agree with the view which had been stated, that the Bill was intended to inaugurate a system of secular education, or an aggression upon the Church of England, he should have no hesitation in opposing it. But he confessed that he could not entertain that view of the question, which was one upon which it appeared to be admitted on both sides, that a grievance, calling for some legislative remedy, existed. One point in particular he was anxious to call attention to. The marginal note to the third clause was to this effect:—"No schools to be deemed Church of England schools unless so declared by their founders." Now, if the Bill passed in its present form, it would work great hardship. In 1522, before the Reformation, a college or school was founded by Bishop Foxe, who said nothing about religious education, in the town he (Mr. Mills) represented (Taunton). The endowment, however, was so minute that the school was dying a natural death; in fact, it had not a practical existence until five years ago, when a clergyman of the Church of England—the minister of the parish—re-endowed it, and it was now a flourishing and prosperous institution. In his deed of en-
 755
 SIR ERSKINE PERRY  supported the second reading of the Bill. He thought the Home Secretary (Sir George Lewis) had dwelt too much upon the legal difficulties connected with the question. He had attended very carefully to the arguments of the Attorney General and the late Solicitor General, and he thought there was no very subtle question at stake. Hero was a practical grievance, for which this Bill supplied a remedy. Recent decisions of the Court of Chancery had established that there would be no education without religious instruction, and that, in the absence of provision to the contrary, that instruction must be that of the Church of England. The Court had held that the words "godly learning," employed at the time of Edward VI., must mean the teaching of the Church of England. No such law would have a chance of passing the Legislature; yet the Court of Chancery had in effect enacted such a law. Moderate men on both sides were pretty nearly unanimous as to what should be done in this matter. They wished to prevent any ill-feeling on matters of this kind between Churchmen and Dissenters, and to deal with the question not as lawyers or Churchmen, but on grounds of public policy.
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, I think it desirable that the House should understand exactly the position in which we arc placed. The Home Secretary has thrown out a suggestion that the Bill should be withdrawn, and that the whole matter should be referred to a Select Committee; but the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just spoken wishes to affirm the principle of the Bill on the second reading, and before its withdrawal. Now before I proceed, I should be glad to know from the hon. Gentleman who has charge of this Bill, whether he intends to accede to the proposition of
 756 757 758 759
 MR. WALTER  said, he did not wish to prolong the discussion, but as it had been said there was considerable unanimity of opinion on the subject, he thought the better course, instead of proceeding to a division, would be to adopt the suggestion of the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and to refer the question to a Select Committee. His belief was, not only that the Bill could never pass in its present shape, but that it was not fit to go into Committee. The Bill professed to provide a remedy for one grievance, but he believed that it would create a thousand grievances. The only practical grievance which existed was that, by a decision of the Court of Chancery, certain gentlemen who were trustees of a particular charity, being Dissenters, had been removed from their position in the trust, contrary to the prescriptive usage of 150 years. He admitted that that was a practical grievance; but the effect of this Bill, if it became law, would be to abolish the prescriptive usage of centuries with regard to a very large portion of the charities of this country; and he trusted the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Dillwyn) would agree to refer the question to a Select Committee, where alone, he believed, the difficulties and intricacies of the subject could be fairly dealt with.
 MR. BRIGHT : I wish only to refer to one observation which fell from the hon. Member for Taunton (Mr. Mills). The hon. Member mentioned a case in which he thought this Bill would create a grievance. It is quite possible that might be so, but I am sure my hon. Friend (Mr. Dillwyn) will endeavour to meet that case by the introduction of any words which it may be thought necessary to insert in the Bill. The right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr.
 760 761
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I must say, Sir, that after the course which this debate has taken the proposition made by my right hon. Friend the Home Secretary with reference to this Bill seems to me very reasonable. I think the course of the debate has shown that there is a practical grievance which requires a legislative remedy. That is a great admission to obtain from the House. It was distinctly and candidly made by the hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns), and I was very glad to hear him pledge himself to give his assistance in devising a legislative remedy; but I think it has also been established that grave doubts exist whether the Bill of the hon. Member for Swansea is likely to apply an efficient legislative remedy. Under these circumstances what my right hon. Friend proposes is that we should hesitate in adopting this Bill without further inquiry into the precise nature and extent of the grievance and the best mode of providing a remedy; and I think the proposal a reasonable one. I think the observations of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Walpole) have rather tended to lead the House away from the real question at issue. He says that the Bill proposes generally to alter the law of evidence upon
 762 763
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that the speech of the right hon. Baronet who had just addressed the House seemed to leave in doubt what was the recommendation or decision at which the Government had arrived. Should the House agree, as he trusted it would, to negative the question that the Bill be "now" read a second time, Gentlemen on that, the Opposition, side of the House would be prepared to substitute for the Amendment to read the Bill a second time that day three months words to this effect—that a Select Committee be appointed to inquire how far, having regard to usage and the declared trusts of foundations, the educational charities of England and Wales could be made available for the education of the children of persons dissenting from the doctrine and discipline of the Church of England. He believed that a proposal of that nature would meet the equity and justice of the case, and he hoped it would be supported by both sides of the House.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, as my constituents naturally feel a deep interest in this question, I trust I may be allowed very briefly to state my opinions on the subject. A distinction without a difference is commonly thought to be an absurd thing, and I think a division without a difference is much worse. I may safely say, after listening to a debate of three or four hours, that there has been a general concurrence of opinion—so far as opinions have been definitely expressed —on both sides of the House. The late Solicitor General (Sir Hugh Cairns) has made a double admission, or rather a double statement, that the law requires amendment. In his opinion, if I understood him correctly, there ought to be some statutory affirmation of the principle of usage as applicable to endowed schools and educational charities, and he also thinks that in lieu of the cumbrous, uncertain, and somewhat hazardous process of procuring what are called "conscience clauses" in particular, some general law should be established by the Legislature. These are admissions on the opposite side, and I have not heard on this side anything more definite in its terms or that has gone beyond these admissions. The hon. Member for Birmingham has spoken of the great principle asserted by this Bill, and he seems to think the vote of the Members of the Government ought to be determined, not with re-
 764 765
 MR. HENLEY  wished to guard himself and hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House from being supposed to assent to the proposition that a grievance had been proved in this case. He was, however, quite disposed to inquire into the facts, and see whether there was a grievance or not. The facts had been so much controverted by great lawyers on both sides of the House that he was unable to satisfy his mind as to what was really the effect of the decision which was said to have raised all this question. So obscure was this matter that since the House met in February the author of this measure had produced three essentially different versions of his own Bill. The hon. Gentleman had told them he did not want—that, on the contrary, it would be very objectionable— to have Dissenting trustees for a Church of England school. In the second edition of this Bill, however, he had proposed to do that very thing. [Mr. DILLWYN dissented.] The hon. Member might shake his head, but it was provided in No. 2 Bill that no person should be deemed incompetent to act as feoffee or trustee of a school by reason of his dissent from the doctrines of the Church. When, therefore, they had three Bills placed before them in the space of four or five months, all differing widely in their terms, and when no two lawyers exactly agreed as to what the grievance was which they had to cure, it was impossible to assent to the second reading of this measure. He trusted that the recommendation of the Home Secretary would be adopted.
 MR. DILLWYN , in reply, said the portion of No. 2 Bill which the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire had referred to, applied to the very class of endowed
 766
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  inquired what course the Government intended to pursue in respect to the future stages of this Bill?
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the course he proposed to take was in entire accordance with the suggestion he had already made. Instead of the Bill being submitted to a Committee of the whole House, he thought it ought to be sent to a Select Committee. He therefore now begged to move, that it be referred to a Select Committee accordingly.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  had not the least objection to the adjournment of the debate till to-morrow if such were the wish of the House; but it was necessary that the Committee should be nominated, and when the Motion for that purpose was made, every opportunity would be given to the hon. Gentleman to obtain the explanation he desired. An adjournment was, therefore, unnecessary. It was, of course, impossible now to state what clauses the Government, or any other Member who might sit on the Committee, would wish to propose; but it was well known that it was in the power of a Select Committee entirely to remodel any Bill that was referred to them—[ a laugh
 MR. CONINGHAM  trusted that the hon. Member for Swansea would adhere to a postponement of this question until to-morrow or some other occasion. The principle of the Bill was of the utmost importance, and one on which the Liberal party ought to enter into no compromise. The course taken by the Government on this matter would show whether their policy was likely to entitle them to support.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, the Motion of the Home Secretary was rather irregular, and had evidently taken the hon. Member for Swansea by surprise. The usual course was for the hon. Member who had charge of a Bill to fix the day for going into Committee, and then it was competent for any hon. Gentleman to move as an Amendment that there should be a reference to a Select Committee. Nobody had been prepared for this sudden proposal, which, moreover, would have the effect of taking the Bill entirely out of the hands of the hon. Gentleman who brought it in. The Motion should therefore now be withdrawn,
 771
 MR. BOUVERIE  thought the suggestion of the right hon. Member for Stroud would delay the progress of the Bill, while that of the Home Secretary would facilitate it. If the hon. Member for Swansea fixed the next stage of the Bill, it could not come on for a fortnight or so, when they would have another debate on the question of referring the measure to a Select Committee.
 MR. SPEAKER  asked whether the hon. Member for Swansea had moved the adjournment of the debate?
 MR. DILLWYN  said he begged to move that the House go into Committee on the Bill to-morrow.
 MR. SPEAKER  said that the hon. Member, having already spoken, was not then entitled to make a Motion; but if by any misapprehension on his part, he had not heard the hon. Gentleman move, he was sure he was acting in accordance with the wishes of the House in giving him an opportunity of moving the adjournment.
 MR. HADFIELD  hoped the hon. Member for Swansea would not abandon the charge of the Bill. He begged to move that the House go into Committee on the Bill to-morrow.
 MR. SPEAKER : Does the hon. Member move the adjournment?
 MR. HADFIELD : Yes.
 MR. J. HARDY  gave notice, that on the Motion for referring the Bill to a Select Committee, he would move a general Resolution, referring the whole subject to a Select Committee with a view to legislation on it.
 MR. M'MAHON , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, the measure was exactly identical with one that had been read a second time last year, with this exception, that he had omitted from the present Bill all the clauses which had been made grounds of objection on the previous occasion. He believed the principle of the
 772
 MR. BOUVERIE  remarked, that Bills, when unopposed, were never investigated so closely as those which brought antagonism into Committees. In the present case the Treasury had made arrangements which the Bill proposed to carry out. Such arrangements were sometimes mischievous, and be supposed that it was with a conviction that such was the case that the Chancellor of the Exchequer meant presently to move an inquiry. He ought perhaps to add that it was in the power of the Chairman of the Committee of Ways and Means, if he thought proper, to refer the Bill to the Committee, and in such cases it would be treated as an opposed Bill.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : I beg to state, in answer to the question of the hon. and learned Gentleman, that it is my intention immediately—I shall give notice this evening—to bring in a Bill for the reform of the Corporation of the City of London. With regard to the latter part of the question, whether the Bill will be in conformity with the report of the Royal Commission, having myself been one of those Commissioners, I have no doubt that a Bill founded upon the Report of the Commission would have been entitled to the consideration of the House. But since that Commission made its Report the matter has been under the consideration of a Select Committee of this House, which reported a Bill a year ago. I think the Government are bound to pay deference to the opinion of that Committee, and the Bill will, therefore, be in conformity with the measure reported by the Select Committee of this House.
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, he had to ask Whether the Statute Law Commission is,
 794
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the Statute Law Commission was still in existence, but that Mr. Bellenden Ker was no longer a paid Commissioner. He had not ascertained on what day his salary ceased, but it was not now payable. He believed that the staff of the Commission was still in existence.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said that his predecessor in office intended last Session to bring in a Bill for the rating of public establishments. That Bill made little or no progress, and there was considerable difficulty in legislating on the subject, especially with regard to the rating of charitable institutions and societies for literary and scientific purposes. It was not his intention to propose a Bill on the subject during the present Session, but he hoped to carry into effect an arrangement with some of the principal parishes in which complaint was made—namely, the parishes in which the principal forts and arsenals were situated, giving them compensation for the non-rating of public establishments. The arrangement he contemplated could be carried out by a vote of the House without the necessity of having recurrence to legislation.
 MR. KINGLAKE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether regard for the public service makes it expedient to withhold the answers of Sir J. Crampton to the despatches, dated respectively the 25th and the 29th of April past, in which Lord Malmesbury directed inquiries to be made concerning the alleged engagements between Russia and France?
 MR. FITZROY  said, the drawings would be ready for exhibition in the course of ten days; but the building tenders which were to accompany the drawings, would not be ready for at least three weeks. It would be for the House to determine whether it would wish to have the designs exhibited without being accompanied by the building tenders.
 MR. GRIFFITHS  said, he wished to ask the Attorney General for Ireland, Whether he intends to recommend to the Government to equalize the suitor's percentage in the Transfer of Land Courts in Ireland down to the rate payable on amounts not exceeding £10,000.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that in rising to ask a question, of which notice had been given on the paper, he would ask permission to preface it by a few explanatory remarks. As the honour of a gentleman had been affected, he trusted to be allowed to say a few words. A statement appeared in  The Times Cries of
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he was sorry to put the House to any inconvenience, but he felt himself compelled to move the adjournment of the House in order that he might make a necessary statement. The statement of the person signing himself "Civilian" was this. The letter was respecting the examination of young men anxious to serve as officers in the army; and the writer thus expressed himself:—
 "I trust that one of the first acts of Mr. Sidney Herbert, our new Minister of War, will be to acquaint himself with the precise position in which his predecessor has left the important question of military education. Inquiries which I have recently instituted have satisfied me that the opponents of that question have of late made surprising progress, and that the bar which is supposed by the public to exist for the exclusion of dunces and idlers from the British Arm;, after having been successively lowered many pegs by order of the late Minister of War, now actually lies upon the ground, and may be readily lounged over by the most ignorant  habitué 797
 GENERAL PEEL : When ray hon. and gallant Friend says he does not know who "Civilian" is, I believe he is the only person in the House who is ignorant of that person's name. [ Cries of 798 "There are at this time in the Cavalry of the Line ten cornetcies vacant by purchase, and twenty-four without: and in the Household Cavalry one cornetcy vacant in the 1st Life Guards, five ditto in the 2nd Life Guards, and two ditto in the Royal Horse Guards Blue; and there is not a single candidate for Cavalry on the Commander-in-Chiefs list who has passed his examination. The case is also becoming even more pressing in the Infantry. There are at this moment no candidates for commissions, either by or without purchase, who have passed their examination, and are un provided for, with the exception of five or six who passed in April last for commissions by purchase, and who have since stated their inability to purchase. There are several vacant ensigncies in different regiments which cannot, therefore, be filled at present, and seventeen battalions, to which four companies are to be added in proportion, as they approach the completion of their establishment in rank and file. It is therefore quite evident that under the present system of examination the supply will not keep pace with the demand. It may be stated that 125 candidates were examined in April. Of these 73 passed and 52 failed. At the examination of this month (June), 77 were examined of whom 50 passed and 27 failed." "The present very urgent demand for officers having been represented to the Council of Military Education, it has appeared desirable to recommend such modifications in the schemes of examination as will, it is believed, adapt it to present circumstances." "The Council therefore begs to recommend them to the favourable consideration of his Royal Highness. The Council begs to add that Canon Moseley, who is absent, has expressed his concurrence in the above recommendations." "War Office, 10th July, 1858. "Sir,—In reply to your letter of the 3rd of July, forwarding a memorandum from the Council of Military Education, recommending certain modifications in the scheme of examination of candidates for direct commissions, I am directed by Secretary Major-General Peel to acquaint you, for the information of his Royal Highness, that he approves of the alterations therein recommended. I am at the same time to remark that the report
 799 "B. HAWES." maximum
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to ask the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, whether it is true that the British ship  Laurel,
 VISCOUNT DUNKELLIN  said, that the Motion itself was unobjectionable, but some of the observations which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman in introducing it, might, he feared, insensibly bias the tenor of instructions to the Committee, by reason of the high quarter from which these had proceeded. In his view every engagement entered into between the Executive Government and any body of public men, even irrespective of its merits or demerits, became a matter of public faith; and therefore he trusted that, so far as Galway was concerned, which had repeatedly engaged the attention of Parliamentary Committees as an eligible transatlantic packet station, the scope of the inquiry might be narrowed by its omission from the Resolution.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to express his satisfaction that this subject, involving, as it did, so large an expenditure of public money, was about to be submitted to a thorough investigation. He hoped the inquiry would not be narrowed down in the manner suggested by some hon. Members. As he took it, the object of appointing the Committee was not the reopening of public contracts; but it was very important that the public should be put in a position to judge whether a better arrangement than that which at present existed might not be adopted in respect of the mode of making those contracts. For himself, he was not very sanguine that the Committee would make a very early report. Some years ago he sat upon a Committee to inquire into a contract in which the Peninsular and Oriental Company were concerned, and that inquiry lasted a long time. The present Committee were going to travel all over the world, and their labours would not, he feared, be very speedily concluded.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that there was one matter connected with this subject upon which nothing had as yet been said, in a
 813 814 "The late Board of Treasury declined making any advance beyond the sum of £3,000; nevertheless, my Lords being desirous of meeting what may be the views and wishes of the Colony, and being duly sensible of the great advantage of expediting the communication with Newfoundland and the North American Colonies generally, are disposed to authorize an advance on the Imperial contribution from £3,000 to £4,000, or £4,500 as a  maximum, 815 "I am desired by the Lords Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury to inform you, in reply to the letter addressed by you to this Board on behalf of the Liverpool, New York, and Philadelphia Steamship Company, that when a new postal service is about to be established by Government, it is the practice of their Lordships to invite tenders by public advertisements, thereby affording to all parties the opportunity of competing for such services, provided they conform to the required conditions." 816 Hansard "Her Majesty's Government had not at present entered into any definitive contract for making Galway the port of departure for the mails. A proposition, however, had been submitted to the Treasury by one of the Atlantic steam companies for a regular fortnightly service from Galway to some port in North America. That proposition was under consideration upon the terms submitted by the company, but the Lords of the Treasury had, of course, reserved to themselves the power, before any arrangement was concluded, of making the fullest inquiry as to the extent of the benefit to be obtained from such communication, and the solvency of the company. Security would also be required for the carrying out of the conditions of the contract in the adequate manner in which it was now performed by the Cunard Company."—[3  Hansard, "My Lords admit the expediency, as a general rule, of inviting tenders by public competition when new postal services are about to be established, under circumstances in which the principle of competition is properly applicable; but the case referred to in your letter is quite exceptional." 817 viâ 818
 MR. ELLICE  (St. Andrews)  said, that he did not wish to cast imputations on any persons connected with these contracts, but he wished to direct the attention of the House to the injury done to the province of Canada. That province, in order to assist the gentlemen of Liverpool, granted a large subsidy to complete the communication, which now took place once a week between Liverpool and that colony. From personal experience he could say that neither Cunard's vessels nor any other vessels between England and America were better fitted to accomplish the object in view than the vessels employed by the company under the patronage of the Government of Canada. Those vessels carried the letters without the least cost to the public of this country,
 819 820
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, he wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether the Galway contract was actually concluded, and, if so, whether the right hon. Gentleman considered the House pledged a year beforehand to vote the means necessary to carry it out? He should like also to know to what extent the right hon. Gentleman thought the Treasury had power to bind that House beforehand to every profligate piece of expenditure which the Treasury might choose to sanction. He might remind the House that a considerable time must necessarily elapse before the Committee could report, and this was sometimes a very convenient mode of shelving troublesome questions. He hoped that when the subject of the Red Sea Tele-
 821
 MR. LYGON  said, the hon. Gentleman who spoke last had assumed, from the fact that no papers between the 10th of March and the 15th of April had been laid on the table relative to the Dovor contract, that the matter had entirely dropped; and he had led the House to infer that circumstances occurring about that time induced the late Government again to take up the negotiation. To that assertion or inference, whichever it might be, he now gave the most unqualified denial. Between March and April various details connected with this contract were brought under the attention of his department (the Admiralty) almost daily, although they did not assume a form which required them to be printed in the papers. The hon. Gentleman had accused the late Government of delinquency in having increased the money paid to the Dovor contractor. Now, when the matter was investigated, the contractor, instead of being a pecuniary gainer, gained nothing whatever beyond what was to be derived from the extended duration of his contract. The sum of £2,500, which had been alluded to, was paid to the contractor for various special services rendered at the instance of the Government; and though there was a trifling amount this year beyond that of last year for such services, yet the contractor had undertaken to make certain improvements in the conduct of the packet service which would be most advantageous to the public. These questions should be decided alone by the consideration of what was best for the public interest; and therefore the manner in which the service on the Dovor line had been conducted, and the additional exertions which the contractor had made to facilitate the enormous increase in our correspondence with India, were such as entirely to justify the extension of this contract. The absence of documents between the dates above named solely arose from the papers not then being in a form to be laid on the table; but during the whole of March the matter was constantly under the consideration of the Admiralty.
 MR. BEAMISH  said, that he did not approve the alteration suggested by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he should therefore move the re-insertion of the words "beyond the limits of the United Kingdom."
 MR. URQUHART  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, it was not his intention to speak to the exact form of the Motion, but to say a word or two upon the debate which had taken place. He was somewhat surprised that after the explosion of patriotic indignation right hon. Gentlemen on the Treasury Bench should have vanished. The right hon. Member for Kilmarnock, professing not to wish to prejudge the question, had said everything which a man ought not to have said and very little which he ought to have said. The right hon. Member for Coventry (Mr. Ellice) evidently preferred another line to that of Galway. He (Mr. Whiteside) was not a Galway man, but he knew that the imputations of those right hon. Gentlemen were unjust, and their arguments untenable, and he challenged the Government to a discussion of the question. He was strongly in favour of the Irish contract. It was true that it might be said the arrangement was for the benefit of Ireland. It would be argued upon that principle, and they had a right so to argue it. It was not a new question. It was now ten years since it was first agitated, at a meeting in Dublin in which he took part, and that was a complete answer to the statement of its being suddenly got up, as a job, by the late Government. The right hon. Member for Kilmarnock, as was his custom, assumed everything in his own fashion and then walked out of the House. He begged to ask what was the trade of the North of Ireland? Was it with France? A steamer from Belfast to export linens was tried, but so untaught were the French in our system of political economy that they immediately put a new duty on linens, and would not allow Frenchmen to have clean shirts cheap. Was it with Germany? No. The north of Ireland trade was with America, and, that being so, why were purchasers, bills, money, and advices to be carried past the market for which they were intended to this country, and then sent back again after a delay of a day or two? He wanted to know why Ireland was not to be put upon an equality with England in this respect. It was said that it was a special matter. The hon. Members for Cork and Limerick might, perhaps, prefer those ports, but with those exceptions there was scarcely a town, city,
 830 "Since my attention has been directed to this important subject several years ago, I have always been of opinion that the advantages of the geographical position of Galway would not be fully recognized until it was demonstrated that the passage by that route to America could be more quickly performed than by any other. I heartily wish success to the company by which that fact is now established, and I beg to congratulate you upon your connection with an undertaking which promises to be so beneficial to Ireland." Great Britain, 831
 MR. COWPER  said, that the right hon. and learned Gentleman had dealt unfairly with his right hon. Friend the Member for Kilmarnock. The right hon. Member for Kilmarnock had, in a very temperate manner—[ Cries of 832
 LORD NAAS  said, he was glad to find that the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Kilmarnock, to the effect that the establishment of a direct line of communication between Ireland and America was a profligate waste of public money, did not seem to be shared in by the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken. But what, let him ask, was the course which the late Government had adopted in the matter? They had found a company in Galway actually in possession of the ground, and performing a packet service for the first time between the West Coast of Ireland and America, Great benefit to trade had already occurred thereupon. A contract had been entered into with that company, on the part of the Government, subject to the approval of Parliament, and although it was true that the rule—which he admitted was a salutary one—of putting the line up to competition, had not been followed out, yet the Government had precedent for the course which they took, and that the rule in question was one of by no means an absolute character. The right hon. Member for Kilmarnock had laid great stress on the letter which had been written by Lord Colchester, in which strong objec-
 833
 MR. BEAMISH  said, that after the statement of the right hon. Gentleman he would not press his Amendment.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the laws relative to the management of Highways. He need scarcely remind the House that all roads which were not included in a local Turnpike Act, and not converted into turnpike roads, were repaired by parishes as Highways. For the purpose of maintaining them a surveyor was appointed, and the expense attending their repair was defrayed by a parochial tax called a highway rate. The subject, then, was one of no small importance. For the year ending March, 1855 (the last for which there were any Returns), the highway rate for England and Wales amounted to £1,881,000. The total receipts for the maintenance of Highways, including some sources of revenue besides the rate, amounted to £2,106,000, and the total expenditure in that year was £2,126,000. These figures showed that the interest concerned was one of great magnitude, while the object of the expenditure was one in which the community were also deeply interested. The whole of this expenditure was, with the exception of the six counties of South Wales, managed by single parishes without anything like a combined operation for a systematic management of districts. For some years past Bills had been introduced to that House with the view of establishing the principle of district management under the control of a surveyor who should not be wholly unpaid,
 841
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he had no doubt that the Bill would do all that the right hon. Gentleman said it would do—namely, greatly improve the roads of England, but at the same time he feared it would add enormously to the expense of parishes. There could be no doubt that the principal roads of England were tolerably well taken care of, but the cross roads and the parish roads were very ill taken care of. They all knew that there were a great many persons in every parish who were neither first-rate workmen nor labourers, and who must either be employed in some way or other or go into the union. These bad and weak hands were employed at inferior labour on the roads. But if they appointed a district surveyor he would employ the very best hands, and all the bad hands would be left without any means of employment whatever. Of course
 842
 MR. BARROW  said, he also wished that the country should have an opportunity of seeing this Bill in order that the ratepayers, who would be mainly interested in the question, should have an opportunity of considering its merits. The Bill affected a serious principle in their legislation—namely, that of local self-government, which he viewed as the best part of our constitution.
 MR. A. BRUCE  observed, that the right hon. Baronet had informed the House that the provisions of this Bill would not be extended to the six southern counties of Wales. He should be glad to receive some assurance that either in the present or some future measure these acknowledged benefits would be extended to those counties.
 MR. HARDY  said, he should ill repay the complimentary language of the right hon. Gentleman with regard to the Bill of last Session if he did not offer him his cordial support in bringing forward the present measure and passing it into a law
 843
 MR. PHILIPPS  said, that the farmers were apt to grumble when roads which had been abandoned were revived, and they were made to pay for their repair. He therefore would be pleased to see some principle laid down by which the requisites which constituted a highway could be more readily determined than at present. They must be careful that the provisions of the measure did not cause irritation, but he should not object to its introduction.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he should be glad to know whether there would not be some reservation of the powers of Highway Boards as they existed in corporate towns. He believed that those Boards had worked very satisfactorily, and he should be sorry to see them interfered with.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, there was a clause in the Bill giving power to townconncils of boroughs to assume the powers given to Highway Boards, if they thought fit. He agreed with the hon. Member for Leominster that this Bill had received full attention in the late Parliament. In the case adverted to by the hon. Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond) the high-
 844
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, that in the absence of Colonel North, he rose to move that Colonel Lindsay be added to the Committee upon Military Organization, and that the Committee should consist of sixteen Members.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he was glad that the discussion had taken place, as he thought it well that Ireland should be made aware that the first act of the new Government was to endeavour to upset the only scheme for many years from which she had derived any considerable advantage. It was, however, said that Ireland had never sought that that advantage should he conferred upon her; but that was not the fact, for experiments had over and over again been made with a view to the establishment of such a service. It was, indeed, true that one Commission which had proceeded to the west coast of Ireland to examine its capabilities as presenting a suitable point for the formation of a packet station had concluded their labours by reporting in favour of Holyhead. But it was trifling with the question to say that the people of Ireland were indifferent with respect to it, and he trusted that if the proposed Committee were granted Irishmen would not be excluded from it as they were from the present Government.
 MR. COWPER  said, he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to restrict the erection of permanent structures in the carriage-ways of the metropolis. The subject with which he proposed to deal might appear trivial, but as residents in the metropolis it was one in which they must all feel an interest. The country had been frequently entertained with apprehensions of a French invasion, which it was feared we should not be able to meet; but the
 845 soirée dansante 846
 MR. COWPER  said, he hoped the House would not refuse a second reading to the Bill. Its object was to bring the enlightenment of science to bear on matters deeply affecting the interests of the people. Considering the frightful degree to which food was adulterated, and the amount of evil thereby created, it was high time some remedy was adopted; and, thinking the Bill adequate to that object, he should certainly vote for the second reading.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  aid, he thought that every hon. Member would concur in approving the principle of the Bill. Any such measure emanating from the hon. Member for Birmingham came recommended from a good source; but after carefully examining its clauses, with the sincere desire, if possible, to accede to them, he could not but think that his hon. Friend had on this occasion allowed himself to be misled by evil counsel. His (Sir George Lewis's) objection to the Bill was the extreme vagueness and generality of the provisions it contained, and the absolute impossibility of any magistrate bringing a clear criterion or rule of interpretation to bear upon them. The Bill proposed to create two descriptions of offence. The first was, that every person who should sell, or expose to sale, any article of food or drink in which, in the knowledge of such person, any ingredient or material calculated to injure health had been mixed, should be subjected to a penalty not exceeding so many pounds, and not less than so many shillings. Now, it so happened that various opinions prevailed with regard to what was injurious to health. For example, a certain school of physicians and members of temperance societies held that alcohol, used to whatever extent, was injurious to health; so that if it were mixed with any article of drink, say water, he apprehended that, according to this doctrine, it would be an offence falling within the provisions of this Bill. The second offence was, that every person who should sell or expose to sale as pure and unadulterated any article of food or drink which in the knowledge of such person was adulterated and not pure, should be subjected to such and such a penalty. It did not say that the article was to be deleterious to health. It merely said some article that was foreign to that with which it was mixed. He apprehended, therefore, that if a person sold coffee with which he had mixed chicory, that, too, would be a case of adulteration which would fall within the provisions of the Bill. Then the machinery
 851
 MR. SERJEANT PIGOT  said, he also hoped the House would pause for a few days, the question being one of very considerable importance.
 MR. S. HERBERT  said, he had no objection to Colonel Lindsay being placed upon the Committee, but there was no necessity to increase the number of Members. He had received a communication from the noble Lord the Member for the East Riding of York to the effect that he would be unable to attend the Committee. He would therefore propose that Colonel Lindsay be substituted for Lord Hotham.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said he had heard with great pain from the right hon. Gentleman that the Galway contract was still
 837 838
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : We have received more than one despatch respecting the late events at Perugia—one from Rome and another from Turin, but the facts therein stated are disputed. It is said by the Foreign Minister in Paris that the events at Perugia have been very much exaggerated, and I have directed further inquiries to be made. I would rather not produce the despatches until the real facts have been ascertained.
 LOUD JOHN RUSSELL : The only despatch which I have found in the Foreign Office is one of the 8th of May from Sir
 795
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, that the objection of his hon. Friend (Mr. Hardy) to the Bill rested mainly upon the fifth section, which, in fact, had nothing to do with the principle of the Bill, and for that matter might be left out altogether. Then his hon. Friend, with a vigour in favour of Free Trade not to be expected from him, said that the House would be stepping out of its province if it attempted to protect the poor man from having his food adulterated. But had they not had poison Bills before the House, and had not those Bills been read with universal assent? Yet they depended equally upon the principle of protecting the poor man. Had his hon. Friend forgotten the Bradford poisoning case? But, if his hon. Friend were correct in his position, there was no reason why the poor man should not have poison mixed with his lozenges. The fact was, that articles of prime necessity, such as tea and sugar, were adulterated to such an extent as materially to affect the health of an enormous portion of the population, and, the poor man being unable to protect himself, he contended that it was the duty of this House to step in and protect him.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that he wished to state on the part of the late Government, that it would have been much more satisfactory to them had the subject of the Galway line been brought specifically under the consideration of the House, although he was quite ready to admit with respect to the subject generally that it was convenient at that time to support the proposition of the Government. He was prepared, however, whenever the opportunity was afforded him to enter fully into the whole of the Galway question. The only condition he would make was one not unusual in that House—namely, that fair notice should be given when the subject would be brought forward. From what he had heard before he entered the House with regard to the intention of the Government, he did not expect to find that particular grant made the subject of discussion. He was, therefore, unprepared with papers, and had no opportunity of refreshing his recollection, and he believed he might say that all his late colleagues in the Government were in the same position. He certainly would have supposed that such a statement as had been made by the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) would have been preceded by a formal notice. With regard to the contract which appeared to have excited so much alarm in the mind of the noble Lord who last spoke, it might be satisfactory to him to learn that it would he in the power of the House, when a Vote of money was proposed, to reject it entirely. Formerly, when contracts of this nature were concluded, inasmuch as the expenditure was defrayed from the Post Office revenue, they were not subject to the pleasure of
 822 823
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that by referring the Bill to a Select Committee the House would be precluded from reconsidering its principle. It imposed a distinct disability on the Church of England, because it denied the right to hold property of this kind, no matter how long the possession. Lord Lyndhurst, four ex-Chancellors, and the late Sir W. Follett concurred in passing the Dissenters' Chapels Bill, whereby the Dissenting body acquired an indefeasible title from twenty five years' possession. By this Bill the Church of England, of all religious bodies, would be debarred from pleading their title by possession. He thought that, instead of referring it to a Select Committee, it would be far better to refer the whole question, and not compromise a principle which he was certain the House did not intend to affirm. He must oppose the Motion, and he trusted the House would not leave itself under the imputation of having for the first time during some hundred years imposed a distinct disability on the Church of England.
 MR. E. JAMES  said, he was extremely glad that the hon. Gentleman who had just Bat down had postponed his leave of absence, since he had raised his voice in favour of this measure. It certainly was; one to which no honest tradesman could object. Its principle was perfectly correct, and it would confer great benefit on the poorer classes. He could scarcely think the hon. Member for Leominster was serious in contending that if the poor man, instead of getting a pennyworth of coffee
 850
 MR. HARDY  said, he rose to move as an Amendment, that the Bill be read a second time that day three months. He had carefully looked into the Bill, and in his opinion it was wholly unfit for its purpose and not one which that House was likely to pass. If it became law, it would establish a very objectionable system of in-
 847 "It shall be lawful for the Privy Council from time to time to cause such analyses to be made, and to make such rules and instructions as the said Privy Council may think fit for regulating the use of any material or ingredient distinct from the natural composition of any article of food or drink with which it may be mixed." sub silentio. 848
 MR. HARDY  said, it appeared to him, from all that he had heard urged in favour of the Bill, that little more than a blank sheet of paper, so far as the subject of endowed schools was concerned, would be referred to the proposed Committee. It had been condemned by the Attorney General, whose name was placed on the back of it, as being insufficient to remedy the evils which it proposed to remove, and it was evident that its author did not quite understand his own case. Considering, however, that the Bill had passed its second reading, and that the expediency of inquiring into the subject had thus been sanctioned, he did not deem it advisable to oppose the Motion before the House. He should, however, reserve to himself the liberty of moving an instruction to the Committee when it was named, of the terms of which, in case he should move it, he should give due notice.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, he did not rise to trouble the House with any remarks on the subject generally, but to express an earnest hope that the right hon. Gentleman would not persist in his intention to alter the original words of his Motion. No doubt it was quite proper that a Committee should inquire into the ocean steam-packet service, but the change in the terms of the Motion would reopen a question which had on several occasions been discussed in that House, and which had been already decided by a Committee of the House, and it would occasion the utmost dismay, not only among hon. Gentlemen connected with Ireland, but among the great bulk of the Irish people. He had the honour of being chairman of the Committee on postal communication with Ireland, and while it was sitting he had communications from a vast number of persons connected with Ireland, and he could assure the right hon. Gentleman that the interest felt in the subject in Ireland was most intense. On the other hand, the greatest satisfaction had been manifested by the Irish public when the concessions on this subject, which they had been anticipating for years, were made by the Government, but in proportion to that satisfaction would be the disappointment which would be excited in that country when it was understood that the Government intended to reopen the question. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would consider that the words of his original Motion were sufficiently comprehensive; but if he persisted in his Amendment, he (Mr. Herbert) would divide the House against it.
 MR. RICH  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs if he has received any despatch relating to recent events at Perugia; and, if so, whether he will lay the same on the table, or state the substance of them to the House?
 MR. RICH  said, that this question of contracts having been raised, he wished to bring under the notice of the House the proceedings of the Government with regard to another contract, similar in character to that referred to by the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie). The light hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Disraeli) had complained that the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock had introduced this subject without due notice; but if he had brought forward the case of the Galway contract after the whole question had been referred to a Select Committee, the right hon. Member for Bucks would at once have said, "This is a matter which is now under the consideration of a Committee, you should have brought it forward when the Committee was moved for." Now this was precisely what his right hon. Friend has done, and what he himself should now do also. For he (Mr. Rich) would call attention to the case of the Dovor contract. In the year 1854, he believed, a contract was entered into for the conveyance of mails from Dovor
 824 825 826
 MR. WILSON  said, in the first place, he must explain that it was not the ship but merely the cargo that had been seized. The circumstances were these:—A British vessel was chartered to convey a cargo of guano from a small island lying between Hayti and Jamaica to Baltimore, lately discovered to contain that article. Upon entering the latter port the cargo was seized by the Custom House officers, but not the ship. It appeared that the Custom House officer was not in the first instance aware of the circumstances under which the seizure took place, but on application to the Secretary of State's office he was informed that two years ago an Act was passed by the Legislature of the United States to the effect that henceforth all guano which might be afterwards discovered by American subjects, should be imported into the United States in American ships, and treated according to the same principles as the coasting trade. That conse-
 800
 MR. WILSON  said, that whilst the scope of the inquiry would embrace contracts for mail service between different parts of the United Kingdom, he could assure the hon. and learned Member for Wexford (Mr.
 812
 MR. BRADY  said, he was of opinion that if the House rejected the Bill they would perpetuate a great evil. Why, he would ask, had the question come before them at all? Simply because a great injustice was being done to the poor, and the people were actually being poisoned in many instances; a state of things which had induced the House to grant a Committee to inquire into the subject; and if they now refused to take the Bill into consideration the appointment of that Committee would be regarded as a mere mockery. It was absolutely necessary that some measure should pass. Adulteration was carried on to a frightful extent. There was scarcely an article of food on the table of rich or poor that was not adulterated; and he must say that he felt surprised that a gentleman like the hon. Member for the City of London (Mr. Crawford), the representative of a vast trading community, should be a party to the opposition to this Bill. He hoped, then, that the House would take it into consideration for the sake of the poor, who were daily and hourly not only robbed, but poisoned, by the retail tradesmen of the country. The details of the measure might not be perfect, but they could he considered and altered when requisite in Committee.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, according to the rules of the House the hon. and gallant Member must confine himself to such a statement as was absolutely necessary to make his question intelligible.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that in so far as the guarantee of money was concerned it had passed through a Committee of the Whole House, and as the Bill was unopposed the proceedings had been in conformity with usage.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, the authority of the Government to interfere with the percentage depended upon its being satisfied that the reduced percentage
 796
 MR. GEORGE  said, that being as an Irish county Member peculiarly interested in the communication between London and Dublin, and in consequence of the especial allusion that had been made to it by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he was desirous of saying a few words. He wished to remind the House that the contract for the postal service between Dublin and London rested on peculiar grounds. It would be recollected that repeated complaints had been made from time to time with regard to the state of the postal and passenger communication between the two countries, and more especially between the two capitals; Committees again and again reported on the subject, and eventually, in accordance with their recommendations, a special Act of Parliament was passed, enabling, and almost directing, the London and North Western and the Chester and Holyhead Railway Companies, and the City of Dublin Steam Packet Company to enter into a contract for the improvement of the communication between the two countries. Repeated questions were put in consequence of the delay which took place in carrying out that agreement, and an interval of two years elapsed before the matter was brought to a satisfactory conclusion. At the end of last year, however, a solemn contract was entered into and signed by the railway and steam packet companies, by the Lords of the Admiralty, the Post Office authorities, and other parties interested in this subject. It had been spe-
 811
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he had listened to the whole debate of the previous day in the confident hope that he should hear some reasons which would at least give an appearance of plausibility to the proposition, but he had heard none. The importance of the measure was such as merited handling by the Government, but since the Bill originated with a private Member, he must express his regret that its previous endorsement by the learned Member for Wolverhampton should now invest it with the authoritative support of Her Majesty's Attorney General—and still more he must regret that Her Majesty's Ministers, for the major part, should apparently out of courtesy to their colleague have supported with their votes a measure which they condemned by their speeches. Something was said of the necessity of admitting Dissenters to a share in the advantage of Church schools. But he would remind the House that that proposition was one in its essence totally distinct from the proposition which was affirmed by the first clause. The proposition to share in the advantage of Church schools admitted the
 854
 MR. JOHN LOCKE  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department; Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring in a Bill during the present Session for the reform of the Corporation of London; and, if so, whether such Bill will be in accordance with the Report of the Royal Commissioners?
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he had expected that the Motion would have been agreed to as a matter of course, as nothing could be more fair or more prudent than the manner in which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had brought it forward; but he regretted to find that a right hon. Gentleman on the other side of the House, from one of the sister countries, carried away by national prejudice, had made an attack upon the late Government for giving en-
 836
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that in the absence of his hon. Friend Mr. F. Russell, he had to move that leave of absence be given to Mr. Brady for a fortnight on urgent private business.
 MR. VANCE  said, he must express his regret that the discussion had not been conducted in a more temperate manner. In his opinion the late Government not only was free from blame, but deserved commendation for the agreement made with the new company, more especially in reference to the interests of Newfoundland, which place was passed by Cunard's vessels, so that other vessels had to be engaged to bring the passengers and correspondence back again from Halifax. There was an absolute necessity that some other port for the departure and arrival of the mail should be sanctioned besides Liverpool, on account of the detention occasioned by beating through the Channel, and from occasional want of water before the port of Liverpool. It was said that this line was not put up to competition, but neither was Cunard's when first established, and Ireland had a claim to the benefit of a communication with America. It had been alleged that Cunard had been treated with neglect, but it must be horns in mind that his contract had been prolonged, and that he had received a distinguished mark of Royal favour. All the great towns in Ireland sent memorials to the Lord-Lieutenant demanding that there should be a line from Ireland to America, and Galway was fixed upon by all parties, with the exception of a few otherwise interested.
 MR. WALTER  was so convinced of the necessity for the Bill, that he should be extremely sorry if it were not permitted to go to a second reading. The practice of adulterating food in this country had become a universal evil, and was a national disgrace. There was, indeed, no country in Europe in which the system was carried to such an extent with impunity. In France, chiefly owing to the stringency of the law on this subject, bread and all the common articles of food could be bought
 849
 MR. J. EWART  begged to assure the House that there was not on the part of the people of Liverpool the slightest feeling of jealousy in the matter, inasmuch as they
 834
 MR. MARSH  said, he was of opinion that if the result of the labours of the Committee was to establish that only one line of oceanic postage were desirable, he believed it would greatly increase the efficiency of the service and would likewise have the effect of curtailing the very considerable outlay that was at present necessitated both on the part of this country and of the Colonies. At present considerable diversity of opinion existed with regard to what might be regarded as such a simple matter as the shortest route to Sydney; most persons maintaining that the most direct passage was by way of Panama, though the House might be surprised to hear that the shortest was in reality by North America and Labrador. In a very few months telegraphic messages would be transmitted  viâ
 MR. HASSARD  said, he wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer; Whether be intends to act upon the recommendations contained in the Report of the Select Committee on County Rates (Ireland) presented in July, 1858; and if he intends to take a vote in the Estimates for that purpose?
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he regretted to see so much of commercial jealousy towards Ireland imported into this discussion. It was not the fact that the Galway line of packets was the first that had been subsidized by the Government. Government subsidies had been granted for a long series of years to various steam-packet companies, and that not merely for postal purposes, but for the fostering of commerce and the production of large vessels. In fact, upwards of half a million of money, for which the Government received no return, was now yearly granted by the Government in those subsidies. At Liverpool alone the contract for the Cunard line had entailed a net loss of £61,642 a year, that is, beyond the amount of the contract. From the Report of the Committee on steam-packet contracts in 1853, (Appendix C) it appeared that these contracts—Halifax and new York, Bermuda and Newfoundland, and Bermuda and St. Thomas—together involved a net loss of £61,000 a year. To one of the companies running from Southampton to the West Indies we paid £270,000, involving a net loss of £180,000. To the Pacific mail we paid £25,000 for the mail running between Callao and Valparaiso; and the loss was £19,509. Upon all these lines of communication, carried on by steam contracts, not by packets in Her Majesty's service,
 828
 MR. CRAWFORD  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he opposed the Bill for the reasons which had been so well stated by the hon. Member for Leominster. His objection was not to its principle, but simply to the means by which it was proposed to carry out that principle, which would lead to infinitely greater evils than the Bill was designed or intended to cure.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he was sure that the public would be in the highest degree satisfied with the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as much discontent prevailed at the way in which the system of public contracts had hitherto been carried on. He did not think it was so much a question whether the making of a particular contract was to be charged as aground of censure against this or that Government, or whether one or another Administration was to be praised for exerting itself to forward the public wish with regard to a particular line. But when they saw the documents which had been laid on the table of the House respecting the Galway and Dovor mail contracts, and perused the voluminous mass of correspondence which had been presented in reference to the Mediterranean
 810
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, the Bill was not put into the hands of hon. Members till that morning, and he would therefore suggest that the debate be adjourned until any day in the next week that the right hon. Baronet might name. This would give them a few more days to look at it, and to examine what would be its effect upon the existing statute, as well as to ascertain the opinion of people in Ireland with respect to it.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he should not have taken part in this discussion had not the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock laid it to his charge that he had not stood up for his friends, and he only rose for the purpose of showing that the taunt was entirely without foundation. He was afraid the right hon. Member had not been so attentive as he ought to his Parliamentary duties, or he would have remembered that he (Mr. Horsfall) was the first to bring this subject before the House. Hon. Members had on that occasion talked about his being jealous of the interests of Ireland, but he said that he looked upon this as a national question, at the same time that he thought great injustice had been done to his friends in Liverpool. He (Mr. Horsfall) stated the very opinions to which the hon. Member had just given utterance. He read the letter from Sir Charles Trevelyan which the right hon. Member had read; but, feeling this to be a national question, he was quite content to leave the whole question in the hands of Parliament. He approved of the Committee, and had no doubt that the Committee would come to a just decision not only with regard to the Galway line, but with regard to every other line which would be submitted to their discussion.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he did not suppose that it would be the wish of the House that he should enter at any great length into a detail of the considerations which had led the Government to think that it would be wise to invite the special attention of the House of Commons to this subject through the medium of a Select Committee. In the short statement he had to make he should confine himself to reasons which were of a most general character, on the assumption which he had made, that the present would not be a convenient occasion for the discussion of the merits of any particular proceeding or arrangement. These general reasons were of a very simple kind. A considerable number of years ago the practice of granting subsidies for terms of years for what might be called ocean postal service to steam packet companies arose, having at that period in a great degree the character of an experiment, and having in view both the performance of the postal service on a scale then altogether novel, and likewise, as might be in the recollection of many hon. Members, the provision of means, which it was then thought might be found important, in connection with the defence of
 801 802 maximum 803 804 805
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the question, so far as he was concerned, could be very easily answered. The Treasury had accepted in
 793
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that some points had been raised in the course of that discussion which he felt it his duty briefly to notice. An impression seemed to exist in the minds of some hon. Gentlemen that a portion at least of the English Members were jealous of Irish enterprise. But he was persuaded that no such feeling existed on the part of any of the Members of that House, and that from whatever part of the country they came they all gladly welcomed every indication of prosperity, either in England, in Ireland, or in Scotland. But the suspicion to which he referred was only one of the evils inseparable from the system of granting public subsidies of that description. The inevitable result of such a system was, along with other secondary disadvantages, the introduction of a painful rivalry and a conflict between the claims, or the supposed claims, of different parts of the kingdom. With regard to the order of proceeding in that Committee, he ventured to anticipate that in consequence of the obvious conclusion of the case, and with a full recognition of all the obligations, whatever they might be, the country had contracted, it would be expedient the Committee should inquire at a very early period into the Galway contract. The progress of the debate had clearly shown a general wish to that effect on both sides of the House, and after so much had been said both in condemnation and in defence of the transaction, it was eminently desirable that it should, without any unnecessary delay, be brought under the review of the Committee. At the same time he admitted the force of what had fallen from his right hon. Friend the Member for Portsmouth (Sir Francis Baring) with re-
 839 840
 MR. ANGERSTEIN  said, he wished to inquire, If it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce a Bill for the rating of public establishments during the present Session.
 MR. DEEDES  said, that any one attempting to legislate upon this subject would find himself surrounded by such difficulties as those just pointed out by the right hon. Gentleman (Sir George Lewis), but that was no reason why it should be said that no legislation was required. It only showed the advisability of not entering too much into detail in preparing a measure the object of which was to prevent the evil complained of. It was matter of common knowledge that the evil existed, and that the strong arm of the law was necessary to its eradication. He was inclined to think that the hon. Promoter had been led too far into the intricacies of the question, but the House was considering the principle of the Bill, not its detail; that would be dealt with in Committee. He was prepared to affirm the principle and thus to satisfy the country that they were prepared to try and devise some means by which effect could be given to it. And even if, in Committee, every clause but the first were struck out that clause enunciating the principle that if anybody sold anything that was injurious to health he should be subject to certain penalties, he was of opinion that an important piece of legislation would be effected. He therefore hoped that the House would not throw out the Bill.
 MR. MASSEY  said, the fact was that the Bill related to a commercial speculation in which the public wore at the same time largely interested. Being unopposed, it went through the usual revision in Committee by the Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee according to the Standing Orders, and the contingent charged on the revenue was introduced into the Bill with the sanction of the Treasury, and under an arrangement made by the Treasury with the Company. He (Mr. Massey) was not then in office. The right hon. Gentleman the First Commissioner of Works then filled the office of Chairman of Committees, and must have been satisfied that the public interest had been duly protected. The Bill was not one in which a private com-
 791
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  said, he rose to move the second reading of this Bill, the main object of which was to afford protection to the poor against being imposed on in the purchase of adulterated articles, by empowering local bodies to employ paid analysts. He did not know that it was to be opposed, but if it were now road a second time, anything objectionable contained in it might be remedied.
 MR. TITE  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, When the drawings for the New Foreign Offices, together with the premiated drawings, will be exhibited in the Library of the House?
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that without entering upon the question of the Galway contract he wished to call attention to the fact that in the Naval Estimates which were about to come under the consideration of the House, that a Vote was to be taken under a new contract, and to submit that if the House voted that money they would become parties to the contract. If, however, the Government proceeded with the contract it would be necessary to grant the money. He would, therefore, suggest that the Vote should be postponed until after the Committee had made their inquiry. He thought the appointment of the proposed Committee would result in great public benefit, for no man could deny that the present practice of dealing with those contracts was most irregular; and it was therefore incumbent on the House to declare the principle on which they were to be regulated in future. With this view he would suggest that a rule should be made requiring that all these contracts should be laid on the table, and not be valid unless they were unobjected to for a certain time after.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that as Chairman of the Election Committee he was anxious to say a few words on the present Motion. Every hon. Gentleman must be aware that a good many Committees had to sit before the termination of the Session. The duty was not a pleasant one, and it would call for the attention and the patriotism of the House. It was therefore the duty of the Election Committee to spread the duty equally among all the Members, and thus make it as light as possible. If hon. Gentlemen, however, were to move for leave of absence upon urgent private business, as the Session went on the number of Members left to serve upon the Committees still to be struck might be very small. The House would, therefore, have to be a little more strict than it usually was in giving leave of absence. The leave of absence moved for by the hon. Member in this case would expire before the panel on which his name stood, came on, and he had no objection whatever to make to the present Motion. The House could not ask what the urgent private business for which leave of absence was asked might be, but it ought to be understood that the hon. Member who moved for leave guaranteed that he had himself looked into the matter, that he had satisfied himself the leave was asked upon business of urgency, and that he was responsible to the House for the Motion he was making.
 MR. BOWYER  said, he hoped the notice for the second reading of the Bill would be placed on the paper for Tuesday in such a position that it should have a fair chance of being brought on.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he would beg leave to call the attention of the House to the Amendments which had come down from the other House, and which wore most important. This was treated as an unopposed private Bill, and yet it involved by guarantee a charge on the funds of the country to the extent of some £36,000a year. What constitutional checks were there upon the passing of such a Bill? It never went through the usual stages, and had not undergone the consideration of a Committee of the Whole House, as public Bills did. He wished to ask whether such a Bill as this, involving an expenditure of the public money, ought not to have been submitted to a Committee of the Whole House?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he would remind the House that the question before them, which he thought had been for a time lost sight of, was whether it was expedient to appoint a Committee to investigate the manner in which these contracts were made and to consider the best mode of regulating these contracts in future. To him it was quite clear that a necessity had arisen for some inquiry. In the early part of the evening he called the attention of the House to the circumstance of the Lords' Amendments to the Red Sea and India Telegraph Company's Bill, which stood on the paper as a private Bill, though it involved a large outlay of public money, receiving the formal sanction of
 835
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, be knew not what hon. Member had charge of the Bill, or had moved the consideration of the Lords' Amendments; but, in the absence of the Member who had charge of it, he thought the House was much indebted to the hon. Baronet (Sir Henry Willoughby) for calling attention to the subject. The hon. Baronet had stated that an important Amendment requiring some consideration had come down from the Lords, and was now proposed to be inserted in the Bill. In the absence of the Member who had charge of the Bill, or until some other hon. Member made himself responsible for it he (Sir James Graham) thought it desirable to postpone the consideration of the Lords' Amendments until some further attention could be given to the matter. He should, therefore, move that the consideration of them be postponed till Monday, and that they be printed in the meantime.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, that a deep
 827
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that he concurred individually, and he had
 806 807 808 809
 MR. W. MILES  said, it seemed that the present Liberal Members of the House imagined that such a Bill as this was of no importance to the country, for the right hon. Baronet, (Sir W. Somerville) without saying a single word as to its principles, moved that it be read a second time. This Bill would overthrow a settlement that was made long since. He begged to remind the Liberal Members on the opposite side of the House that in the liberty of this country was a great deal of Protestantism, and that before the House was asked to agree to this Bill the object of its authors should be distinctly explained. He hoped the right hon. Baronet would accede to the suggestion of his right hon. Friend the Member for Wiltshire, and permit the House to pause a little before it read the Bill a second time.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  observed, that it was difficult for a private Member to get an opportunity of bringing forward a Bill, and therefore he had intended to press the second reading that evening, but he could not resist the appeal made to him on both sides of the House, and he would therefore consent to adjourn the second reading to Tuesday next.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he would suggest to his right hon. Friend that as the Bill was only printed this morning and was likely to excite considerable interest and lead to discussion, he should postpone the second reading. Perhaps he was the more entitled to make the request, because, as at present advised, it was his intention to support the Bill.
 MR. DAWSON  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland whether it is the intention of the Government to introduce a Medical Charities Amendment Act during the present Session; and, if so, when such a measure will be laid upon the table of the House.
 MR. C ARDWELL  said, the question was brought under the notice of the House not long ago, and he did not think it was not susceptible of a satisfactory settlement during the present Session of Parliament.
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  said, he rose to ask the Vice-President of the Board of
 864
 CAPTAIN OSMONDE  said, when the hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland replied to that question he would perhaps be good enough to state whether the Government intended to introduce any measure for the reform of the Irish grand jury laws.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he was unable to give the reasons why the Bill in question was postponed last year or in the first Session of the present Parliament. The present Government, during their short period of office, had not had it in their power to propose any measure on this subject. The question was, however, tinder their consideration, and it was their desire to propose a measure to cure the defects which were admitted to exist, and which were now met by an annual Act of Parliament. If it were impossible to carry a permanent measure during the present Session, he should be compelled to propose a renewal of the annual Bill.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, it had been his custom to bring forward the question of the Ballot shortly after the assembling of a new Parliament, and he now wished to state the reasons why he did not propose to follow that course at present. He had taken counsel with those hon. Gentlemen who had supported him on this question, who represented the great majority of the Liberal party, and he might add the majority of those hon. Gentlemen who had taken office under the present Government. They considered that there were reasons why this question should not be brought forward during the present Session. The Ballot had been twice before the House during the present year, having been once brought forward unadvisedly, as he thought, after a long debate, and in the middle of the night, and a second time when a full and free discussion took place—a debate remarkable in the annals of the Ballot for the brilliant and argumentative speech made by Her Majesty's Attorney General. Another strong reason for postponing the question of the Ballot during the present Session was, that a vast mass of evidence would be laid before the Election Committees which were about to sit, and then would he made manifest the state of profligacy into which some constituencies had been plunged by the late contest, when great efforts were made by both factions, which, as he believed, used the most unlawful means to obtain their object. With respect to the question of the Ballot in connection with any measure of Reform that might be brought forward by the Government, it was not his intention, or that of his Friends, to place the Ballot in direct antagonism with any well-considered Bill for extending the liberties of the subject and their political rights. It was not his wish to bring forward the Ballot in any factious spirit against the Government, but he was of opinion, and in that opinion he was backed by a large portion of the Liberal party, that no measure of Reform could be final, or even satisfactory to the electors of Great Britain and Ireland, which did not give them the protection of the Ballot at the hustings. He proposed to bring forward the question at the earliest period in the next Session. In the meantime he trusted it would not go forth to the country that he had deserted this great question, which he considered so highly important that it was his intention to press it forward
 869
 MR. WHITESIDE  observed that in the late Parliament he introduced a Bill as to judgments in Ireland, which were a great impediment to the transfer of land in that country. He had given notice of re-introducing the Bill, which was now in an amended shape, and he hoped he should have the support of those hon. Gentlemen who took an interest in this question.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, when, Sir, I gave notice last night of my intention to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs the Question, I did so under the notion that I was by that means adopting the fittest mode of dealing with the matter. I would abstain from pressing any question which the Secretary for Foreign Affairs should not think it desirable to be intruded, but I thought that occasion would give me the opportunity of pointing out why the document referred to might, with advantage to the public service, be laid on the table of the House. Before I proceed, however, to make any such observations, I hope the House will permit me to make a short explanation which is, I think, rendered necessary by the somewhat abrupt contradiction which was given the other day by the right hon. Secretary for India (Sir Charles Wood) to a statement which I then made. I then asked whether there would be any objection to lay upon the table a communication stated to have been made on behalf of Her
 874 The Times "We have seen recent accounts that in a largo portion of Germany a strong spirit prevails by which they seemed disposed almost to engage in hostilities. I hope and trust that their own good sense, aided by the advice which we have given them since we came to power, will induce them to abstain from hostilities." "I believe that in the endeavour to keep Germany out of the war we shall be consulting the best interests of the country." Daily News Morning Herald Morning Chronicle The Times "We learn from Sir Charles Wood that our Foreign Minister has not been idle, and Prussia has been subjected to the same admonitions, expostulations, and warnings which so signally failed of their effect when addressed by Lord Malmesbury to France, Austria, and Sardinia." 875 876
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD : I certainly never used in relation to this despatch the words which the right hon. Gentleman has described. I spoke of it merely as a communication on the part of Her Majesty's Government giving advice to Prussia as to the course to be pursued with reference to the war.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, that although a sum of £300,000 had been voted for the purpose referred to, it had only been taken at the rate of about £12,000 a year; so that it would require twenty-five years to complete all those defences. It would be far better to decide at once what was actually necessary to be expended, and either borrow the money or raise it in some other way, spreading the repayment over the whole period. It was of no use going on voting a few pounds every year.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that on the eve of the division which had led to the resignation of the late Government he had been asked by a certain hon. Gentleman what course he proposed to take in reference to the subject to which the question which had just been put to him related. His impression was, however, that the hon. Gentleman who had addressed to him that inquiry had already made up his mind as to how he should vote on the impending division. He had, nevertheless, replied to the inquiry in the only manner in which he could consistently with truth, and had stated that the late Government had prepared a Bill, or rather two Bills, on the subject, and that, in accordance with the instructions which he had received, he hoped to be able to lay them within a few days on the table of the House. He had not, however, entered into any discussion as to what was meant by the words "tenant compensation," for probably one of the compensations they would expect would have been compensation for paying their rents. The House was well aware what course that question had taken in Parliament. The settlement of it which had been proposed in 1852 had been rejected. About a year ago a certain number of gentlemen had waited on the Earl of Derby, with a view of ascertaining from him whether his Government was prepared to take the subject into their consideration. He
 895 896
 MR. ESMONDE  said, that this question, which deeply involved the interests of Landlord and Tenant in Ireland, was not a party question, and it no longer stood in the same position as formerly. The more violent promoters had cooled down, and as the principle was admitted on both sides of the House, he saw no reason why a fair settlement could not be made. He was sure that the right hon. and learned Gentleman who had just spoken was too patriotic to refuse to lay the Bill which he had prepared upon the table for the benefit of hon. Members and of the present Government.
 MR. KINGLAKE  said, he wished to ask when the Report of the Dockyard Commission, which he understood contained some statements of a startling character with respect to management of the Dockyards, would be laid on the table of the House.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, there were two points connected with the expenditure of the navy to which he wished to draw the attention of the Committee. The Estimates for that department of the public service had of late years been not only steadily, but enormously on the increase. According to a paper on the table of the House the whole expenditure for naval purposes was, for instance, in 1852, £5.800,000; in 1853, £6,280,000; in l858, £8,800,000; while in the present year it amounted to no less a sum than £12,680,000. That Vote was an extremely large one every hon. Member must be prepared to admit, but he was nevertheless not prepared to oppose it, inasmuch as he deemed it to be a wise economy to maintain the defences of the country in an efficient state. To do so would, in his opinion, be, in the long run, found to be the cheapest policy. He was, however, anxious to bring under the notice of the Committee the question whether the navy could not be maintained in a state of efficiency at a much less cost than was involved in the present rate of expenditure. His noble and gallant Friend the Secretary to the Admiralty, whom no one could be more happy to see filling the honourable position which he now occupied than himself (Mr. Lindsay), had frequently, with that honesty of purpose which guided his conduct, called the attention of the House, while one of its independent Members, to what he deemed to be lavish expenditure in connection with the navy. He trusted his noble Friend, now that he was in office, would not forget those truly wise doctrines which he laid down when in Opposition, and that, instead of yielding to the suggestions of those who were under him, he would follow the dictates of his own good sense, aided by that ability which he unquestionably possessed. Having given that advice to his noble Friend, he should beg leave to call his attention and that of the Committee to four items, under the heads of which he thought the navy of England might be rendered
 929 Satellite s. d. Pelorus Scylla Clio Racoon Tantalus Pearl s. d. Satellite Racoon s. d. Tartar Cossack s. Pearl s. d. Pearl Tartar Cossack; s. d. s. 930 s. d. 931 932 933 934
 MR. CARDWBLL  said, that as they were to have another opportunity of discussing the question of the naval reserve on the introduction of a Bill, it was not his intention to inflict upon hon. Members all the observations which, as a member of the Commission on Manning the Navy, he should be anxious to address to the House when the proper time arrived. He would not, however, be doing his duty towards the colleagues with whom he had acted, as an attack on their scheme had been made in anticipation of the latter debate, to offer no brief defence of it on the other side. The recommendations of the Commission on the reserve in the merchant service could not be correctly gathered from the observations of the hon. Gentleman. The Committee must be under the impression that an unwise expenditure of £600,000 had been recommended, and that, upon the more accurate showing of the hon. Mem-
 935 936 fortiori 937
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that he wished to ask for a pledge that none of the sums contained in the Votes amounting in all to £58,657, for carrying out part of the scheme of the Commissioners for Manning the Navy should be expended until Parliament had had an opportunity of discussing the whole report.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, in that case he must protest against the expenditure of public money without the sanction of Parliament. The House, too, was thus committed beforehand to at least one part of the scheme of the Commissioners.
 SIR C.NAPIER  said, he hoped that the noble Lord would persevere with the items.
 MR. HENLEY  said, no doubt it was very desirable to curtail the expenses which fell on the Sheriffs, but he thought the measure required more consideration than appeared to have been given to it and that its second reading ought to be postponed. He professed to transfer the duty of forming the escort for the Judges of Assize and of maintaining order in court from the High Sheriff and his javelinmen to the county police. It was a serious question whether the effect of this would not often be to subtract largely at the time of the assizes from the number of the county police available for their ordinary duty, and thus afford to the thieves a convenient opportunity for the exercise of their ingenuity. He also thought that some difficulties might arise as to where the jurisdictions of the High Sheriff and the chief constable terminated. For instance, how far would the chief constable of the county, when keeping order in court, be under the directions of the High Sheriff? The whole subject of Sheriffs' expenses might advantageously be inquired into before a Committee—a course much preferable to dealing with the matter piecemeal in the manner now proposed.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, his impression, without having considered the matter, was that the chief constable would not be bound by the present law to obey the orders of the High Sheriff. The duties of the javelinmen were, no doubt, to a great extent ceremonial. He would take care that inquiry should be made of the county inspectors of police on the subject if the
 946
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS , in moving for leave to introduce a Bill for the Better Regulation of the Corporation of the City of London, said that that Bill very much resembled the Bill that was introduced on the same subject in a former Session, and referred to a Select Committee, where it underwent considerable alterations, the principal alteration being an increase in the number of wards. The main difference between that Bill and the Bill he wished to introduce was this—that it only dealt with the constitution of the Corporation, and omitted entirely the financial part of the question. It did not attempt to deal with the coal duties or with the metage duties. Those were questions that must be reserved for future consideration. He did not wish to be understood as expressing any opinion on these questions. The coal duties, or at least a portion of them, would expire a. an early period, and it would be convenient to postpone the consideration of those difficult questions till that time arrived, or shortly before.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, the noble Lord the Secretary of the Admiralty had submitted the additional Naval Estimates to the House in a clear and lucid statement greatly creditable to him, seeing how short a period he had held his present office. He was desirous to fix the attention of the noble Lord to a recommendation he had enforced upon the late First Lord of the Admiralty, on the occasion of his submitting the Naval Estimates to the House in the early part of the present Session, that there should be a Board constituted, to assemble as occasion might offer, to be composed of experienced and scientific men, not naval officers singly, who should receive the suggestions and consider the inventions of those who had turned their attention to improvement in naval architecture, gunnery, and other inventions pertaining to the naval service. And at a time, as he had more than once adverted to in this House, when science was making fresh advances hitherto unexampled, and other
 942 943
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he hoped the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams) had not been asleep during the last two years, and that he was aware that the universal feeling of the country was that we should place ourselves in such a position as would enable us to maintain our neutrality.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department on what plea the Government has postponed the introduction of a Bill (promised so far hack as 1853) to place Roman Catholic charities under the superintendence of the Charity Commissioners, from whose control they were now especially exempt; and what course they propose to adopt regarding them?
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he had
 888
 MR. S. HERBERT  said, it was quite true that in 1854 a committee of officers had made a report recommending certain defences for the Humber. Since that time —in 1858, he thought—a further inquiry had been made, owing to the impracticability of carrying into effect one part of the proposals of the Committee of 1854. It had been at one time proposed to give a great armament to the citadel at Hull; but it was found that that would have an injurious effect upon the docks; therefore the plan was abandoned. It was also found that the citadel stood upon ground that did not belong to the Crown, and which was liable to be sold. But in 1858 the Committee had made several proposals for the defence of the Humber. One of those was that a battery of six guns should be placed on the right bank of the river. That battery was now completed. In the last Estimate a considerable sum had been taken by his predecessor in office for de-fending commercial ports. If that vote would bear a portion of the amount being applied to Hull, it certainly should be so applied. No one would underrate the immense importance of Hull, and of giving very early attention to it; and if he found that he could, consistently with his duty, appropriate any considerable portion of that Vote to its defence, he would do so. On the other hand, he would ask, if a large number of guns were to be mounted for the defence of the mercantile community in Hull, that the inhabitants of that and other places should contribute something towards the expense. He hoped, after what had fallen from the noble Lord, that he might consider that a fair bargain.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that in answer to the question of the hon. and learned Member for Bridgewater, he had to state that the Dockyard Commission had reported, and that their Report had been printed; but it was now before the Commission for correction. Before it was presented to the House it would be laid before the Board of Admiralty, and it would be for them to lay it on the table of the House of Commons. Previously, however, to this being done, he thought it likely that the Board of Admiralty would be desirous of receiving some communication from the Surveyor of the Navy, which he understood the Surveyor was desirous of making on the Report. As soon as these matters had been attended to, he believed the Report would be laid on the table of the House. With regard to the question of the right hon. Member for Portsmouth, relative to the packet vote, he thought it unlikely that it would come on to-night for discussion; but if it was the wish of the House that that vote should be postponed, Her Majesty's Government would not object.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Sir, I rise to submit to you these very large Navy Estimates. At all times it would be somewhat difficult for a Gentleman who had only been a very few days in a public department at once to take up the Estimates of the Session. But, over and above that, it does so happen that these Estimates are of an unusually complicated character. Many of the items in these Estimates are in fact not only original Estimates, but they have extraordinary Estimates attached to them, and Supplementary Estimates on the top of all. So that, upon several of the Votes, we shall have to consider three distinct classes of Estimates. Under these circumstances I hope I may claim the indulgence of the Committee; and if I fail in giving a proper explanation of the various items, the Committee, I am sure, will feel that it is not from want of the desire to give every possible information in my power, but that it is simply from the fact of my not having yet had time to make myself thoroughly acquainted with the subject. Before I proceed to plunge into this mass of figures I think the Committee will be interested, and that I shall only be doing my duty, if, in a few words, I endeavour to make them thoroughly acquainted with the exact state of
 901 902 903 904 905 906 907 908
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the only amount required in these Estimates beyond those prepared by the late Government was £100,000 to continue the labours of shipwrights in the different dockyards.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he now had a very pleasing duty to perform, in thanking those hon. Gentlemen who had complimented him on his manner of performing his duty, and had made many valuable suggestions. That which had just been made for a Board of scientific men to consider the subject of naval architecture was a very valuable one. He also had to thank the hon. Member for Sunderland for his suggestions, which he would lay before the Board of Admiralty.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Considering the excessive amount of that reward to men, who, although they are able seamen, are really very inferior to the thorough man-of-war's seamen in their ability to perform the various duties of a ship, Her Majesty's Government think the position in which it has placed those men with reference to their comrades already in the service is one not altogether of a satisfactory nature. Now, it is right to say that these men have not uttered one word of complaint. Their conduct has been noble in the extreme. I have been astonished at the fact, that so far as I am aware, there has not been one word of discontent or complaint uttered in any ship in the fleet. Sir, Her Majesty's Government have resolved to deal generously with these men. I am not at this moment enabled to give the details of the measure that is proposed to be carried out. A Privy Council was held to-day, and an Order made upon the subject will be issued to-morrow; but I
 909 910 911 912 913 914 915 916 "With common men it needs some show of war To keep sweet peace "
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, it was impossible to give that pledge as some of the money—such as the expense of gratuitous bedding and other such items—had already been expended.
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for War his inten-
 890 891
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I do not wish to enter again into this discussion, but I think it right to say that the right hon. Gentleman has taken far from a correct view of the course which Her Majesty's Government have pursued.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I did not say that we had given any advice to the German Powers. I said that we had been in correspondence with the Court of Berlin.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : The only information I have is in substance the same as that which appeared in the  Moniteur
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : In answer to the question which has just been put by the hon. Gentleman, and which was to have been put by the noble Lord the Member for Hereford, relating to a despatch or circular of Count Cavour of the 14th of June, I have to state that it has not been officially communicated to the British Government. There is a despatch from Sir James Hudson, stating the substance of a circular written by Count Cavour—I am not exactly sure whether the same circular or not—which alludes to certain States being annexed to Piedmont. The answer of Her Majesty's Government to Sir James Hudson was that they could not acknowledge any of these annexations of other States; that the state of occupation must
 883 884 "Her Majesty's Government, therefore, deprecate any act which would unnecessarily extend the theatre of war, and they will be prepared to take advantage of any favourable opportunity that may be afforded to them of being the medium of restoring peace."—p. 402. Moniteur 885 886
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : A question of some importance has been raised with regard to the responsibility which the Government is said to have incurred in giving advice to foreign Governments; and it has been said not only that we ought not to advise other States to refrain from increasing their armaments—the fact being that we have given no advice of the kind—but that we ought nut to counsel those States to remain at peace, and to refrain from extending the ravages of war. Now, I find the following advice given by the Earl of Malmesbury to the Confederation. It is contained in a despatch to Sir A. Malet, dated May 1, 1859: —
 "I have received your telegram of this day, by which it appears that a Motion will probably be made to-morrow in the Diet, calling upon the Confederation, without any  casus fœderis
 MR. COCHRANE  observed, that nothing could more completely breathe a spirit of neutrality than the language which the Earl of Malmesbury had employed.
 MR. COCHRANE  said, that in the absence of his noble Friend (Lord W. Graham) he rose to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, whether the Circular of Count Cavour, dated the 14th day of June, 1859, has been officially communicated to the English Court; and if so, whether he has deemed it consistent with his duty to make any reply thereto, or to address any observations thereon to the Sardinian Minister in this country. That despatch referred to one of the 1st of March, which had been published, and of which it purported to be merely a recapitulation. Nevertheless, while the despatch of the 1st of March spoke about obtaining a separate national constitution for Lombardy and Venice, the later despatch accepted the annexation of Lombardy to Piedmont. On this point the following language was held—
 "The feelings of the inhabitants have broken out; the municipal authorities, the very same that had been instituted by Austria, have proclaimed the fall of the ancient Government, have renewed the union of 1848, and unanimously con-firmed their annexation to Piedmont. The municipality of Milan proclaimed it even within range of Austrian cannon. The King, by accepting this spontaneous act of the national will, infringes the existing treaties in no respect, since Austris, by refusing to accept a Congress having for its basis the maintenance of these treaties, and by invading
 882 "The object of the present war, His Majesty openly avows it, is Italian independence and the exclusion of Austria from the peninsula. This cause is too noble for us to dissemble its full bearing, too sacred that it should not obtain in advance the sympathy of civilized Europe. We even ought to acknowledge that this sympathy has never failed us, for the policy of the King's Government has always been the same, and has met with the approbation not only of the public opinion but of the Cabinets." "We feel the most absolute confidence that the equilibrium of Europe will not be disturbed by the territorial extension of a great power, and that in Italy there will be a strongly constituted kingdom, such as is naturally indicated by its geographical configuration, the unity of race, language, and customs, such as diplomacy had already desired to create at other times in the common interest of Italy and Europe. With the rule of Austria, and of the States that joined their destinies to those of Austria, a permanent cause of disturbances will disappear, order will be guaranteed, the smouldering flame of revolutions will be extinguished, Europe will be able to give herself up in full security to those great enterprises of peace that form the glory of the age. You now have, Monsieur le Ministre, the point of view under which you are to present the events now passing in Italy. The contest provoked by Austria ought to have for its result her exclusion from a country which force alone had subjected to an odious and intolerable yoke. Our cause, I rejoice to repeat in ending this despatch, is noble and just; we can, we are bound to avow it openly, and we have full confidence in the triumph of good right."
 MR. A. STEUART  said, according to notice he rose to call the attention of the House to the facilities by which a clergyman of the Scottish Episcopal Communion
 872 873
 MR. DISRAELI : I do not wish to revive the discussion which seemed to be terminated by the observations of the noble Lord the Foreign Secretary, for I am sure that the noble Lord having stated that the correspondence with Prussia is still going on, the House will not press for its production, or even murmur at its non-production. At the same time, however, I am bound to state that the description which the noble Lord has given us of his own despatch is not altogether free from somewhat of an alarming character. It is quite clear that giving advice is interference, and if you profess a policy of nonintervention and at the same time indulge in giving advice to foreign Powers you will eventually find yourselves involved in engagements which you never contemplated. The noble Lord has quoted a depatch of my noble Friend the Earl of Malmesbury, which fairly described the general policy of the late Government, showing that they were in favour of a strict and impartial neutrality, but at the same time that they felt they were free to avail themselves of any favourable opportunity which might present itself for their becoming a medium to restore peace. The noble Lord gives his adhesion to a principle which I believe no hon. Gentleman will be inclined to impugn. But there is in the despatches of
 889 "Her Majesty's Government have done their utmost, within the bounds of friendly representation, to calm the excitement prevailing in Germany, but they have not felt themselves called upon or authorized to dissuade the German States from taking such measures as those States considered to be necessary for the maintenance of their several interests; for they could not assume the responsibility of even morally guaranteeing them against the eventualities of the Italian war." —p. 63.
 MR. DISRAELI : The advice which the Earl of Malmesbury gave in this despatch is very frequently given by him in the course of the papers which have been laid before the House, and in none of them more strongly than in that from which I last quoted. He there says—
 "Her Majesty's Government strongly declare
 893
 MR. DISRAELI : The noble Lord who has just spoken seems to labour under the impression, that in warning Prussia against ravages in the Baltic, we were speaking of the possible policy of England.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  (who was indistinctly heard), — Sir, I may be permitted, before the noble Lord rises, to offer a few words in explanation of what I did say at Halifax, and of why I made the answer that I did yesterday to which the hon. Gentleman has adverted. I understood the hon. Member yesterday to ask for the production of a despatch which I had stated
 877
 MR. D. GRIFFITH  said, he wished to ask what was the object of this Bill.
 MR. D. GRIFFITH  said, that if the House would read the Bill a second time he would postpone the Committee till the 19th of July, which would give ample time for consideration.
 CAPTAIN DANIEL O'CONNELL  said, he wished to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer if he intends to refer the proposed line of postal service from Eng-land to Australia,  viâ
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he had listened with pleasure to the very able statement of the Secretary to the Admiralty, which had been followed by a very able debate, showing the great and growing errors existing in the naval system. Still he thought they had been putting the cart before the horse; that they had been dealing with effects instead of causes. Many of the evils so ably stated were attributable solely and entirely to the general errors of the system and to the constitution of the Board of Admiralty; and what he should have preferred would have been that this discussion had been preceded by a discussion on the Motion of the hon. Member who proposed to inquire into the constitution of the Board of Admiralty, and that the House should have looked into that part of the question before commencing the discussion as to the errors and mistakes and blunders which occurred under the present system. He had long been of opinion that it was utterly impossible, constituted as the Board of Admiralty was, that it should not be the source of errors, blunders, and extravagances without end. And the two grounds of that opinion were these. It was perfectly impossible that a Board, at the head of which was placed a gentleman, be his talents
 940
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he would suggest that these Crown debts as well as judgments should be unavailable as to real estate until they were put into execution.
 MR. LYALL  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for War whether the Government had under their consideration Bessemer's economical process of manufacturing steel, and if there is the intention of substituting that metal for iron to any extent in the manufacture of guns for the Artillery and Ordnance?
 MR. HODGKINSON  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the serious inconvenience caused by the indiscriminate registration of all obligations to the Crown. As the representative of a constituency (Newark) which was particularly interested in this matter, he wished to explain to the House that all persons who were engaged in occupations that rendered them liable to pay customs or excise duties were required to find two sureties for the due payment of such duties, Those securities were registered, and the effect of such registration was, that they became a charge upon not only the property which the surety had in possession at the time of signing the bond, but also all freehold property which he might subsequently acquire. The persons who became securities were unaware of the extent of the obligation they were incurring, for there was nothing in the document they signed to warn them; but if they wished to part with or deal in any way with their freehold property during their continuance of their suretyship they found they could not do so without obtaining a certificate from the Treasury. He knew of one instance in which a gentleman was obliged to part with land compulsorily to a railway company, but was unable to realize the purchase money fur some months on account of his having become surety for a distributor of stamps. As another illustration, he might mention that there were twenty maltsters in Newark, each of whom had to find two sureties for the due payment of the malt duties, so that no less than sixty persons were affected by the grievance, and in many instances the most serious inconvenience had arisen. He could not see why registration should be enforced, nor indeed why the Crown should have priority of payment over other creditors. He wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether the registration of obligations to the Crown might not, without injury to the public service, be dispensed with, except in cases of default on the part of the obligors.
 MR. SCHNEIDER : I rise, Sir, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of the House to the present state of Mexico, especially with reference to the outrages which have been committed upon British subjects; and to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs what steps have been taken to obtain redress for such outrages. As the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs cannot speak twice on the present occasion I trust I may be allowed in a few words to introduce to his attention the subject of which I have given notice. Although that subject is in no way connected with the European war, I am sure that the House will consider it of sufficient interest to claim their particular attention. It relates, Sir, to the present state of Mexico and the outrages that have been recently committed upon British subjects in that Republic. Before entering upon a description of those outrages I hope I may be allowed to state, in a few words, the position of parties in Mexico. There were two leading parties, the Centralists, and the Constitutional party. In 1857 the Constitutionalists were overthrown, and the Centralist party obtained power. In the course of that revolution General Marquez, who was in command of the forces, took possession of the city. One of the General's first acts, after obtaining possession of the city, was to order into prison a British subject who had been brought before him under some trifling pretext, and to sentence him to pay a fine of 1,500 dollars. The name of this person was Mr. Newall, a respectable British gentleman; and upon his inability to pay this fine the General ordered him to be shot at six o'clock on the following morning. Fortunately, a friend and countryman of Mr. Newall, having heard of his situation, and the sentence that had been passed upon him, found the money and paid it, otherwise Mr. Newall would have been undoubtedly shot. At about the same time a Mr. Davis, another British subject, whilst residing in another part of the Republic, was arrested by the Mexican officials for some assumed offence, and was also fined a large sum of money. Mr. Davis having refused to pay the demand was sentenced to prison, and was degraded to march in the army as a common soldier. All this punishment Mr. Davis was compelled to undergo. I will not trouble the House with an account of
 879 880 881
 MR. WILSON  said, he was sorry to say he was informed that the cargo of another British vessel, consisting of guano, had been seized upon its way from one port to another of the ports of the United States, which was an infraction of the treaty between the two countries. The question was one of great importance to the shipping interest, and, in the present depressed state of that interest, it devolved upon the House and the Government to take special care that the existing arrangements between the two countries were fairly carried out. It would be recollected that the understanding with the United States, which was embodied in a correspondence between the English Minister at Washington and the Secretary of State for the United States, was that the whole of the privileges conferred by the laws of Great Britain upon the ships of the United States should be conferred upon British ships by the United States, except as regarded the coasting trade. A very large and expansive meaning was attached by the United States to the term "coasting trade," for they made it include the trade from the east coast of America, from New York and New Orleans on one side, round Cape Horn to California on the other side of the continent. He did not, at the present moment, contend that they were not technically right in that interpretation, because by the law of 1817 the coasting trade was declared to be the trade from one port in the United States to another, so that if a vessel were chartered from one port of the United States to another in one continuous voyage, it might be contended, by an extreme application of the term, that it came under the definition of the "coasting trade." It was urged by the United States that a similar state of things prevailed in Europe, and that when a vessel made a voyage from Havre to Marseilles, although a part of Portugal and Spain
 865
 MR. BRADY  said, he rose to ask the Government if it intends to introduce any measure this Session for the alteration of the laws which regulate the relations between Landlords and Tenants in Ireland, with the view of securing compensation to the latter for all substantial and permanent improvements made by them on their holdings.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, it was not the intention of the Government during the present Session to introduce any measure for altering the laws regulating the relations between Landlords and Tenants in Ireland; but immediately after Parliament had risen the question would be taken into the anxious consideration of the Irish Government with the view to a settlement. He might add in answer to the question of the hon. and gallant Member, that it was not the intention of the Government to introduce any Bill relating to the Irish grand jury laws.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, it was not the intention of the Government to introduce any measure on the subject during the present Session of Parliament. He would remind the hon. Member that when a Bill on the subject was introduced last Session it met with great opposition. He only alluded to that circumstance to show how difficult it would be to deal with the question in the present Session. He might
 863
 MR. HENNESSY : I avail myself, Sir, of the earliest opportunity that has occurred since the change of Government, to express my regret that a party vote should have had the effect of delaying, and perhaps of defeating for some years to come, the settlement of this important question, I confess I have heard with surprise that some hon. Members have expressed a doubt as to the
 897 bonâ fide bonâ fide 898 The Saturday Review 899
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he wished to ask Whether it is intended to introduce, on the part of the Government, any measure for the repeal or modification of the Oath now taken by Catholic Members of Parliament; and, if so, when they will be prepared to lay such measure on the table?
 MR. HASSARD  said, he wished to ask the late Attorney General for Ireland (Mr. Whiteside) what course he proposes to take with respect to the Bills for the adjustment of the relations subsisting between Landlords and Tenants in Ireland, of which he gave notice when a law officer of the Crown.
 MR. MALINS  said, there was a Bill in-
 870
 MR. LOWE  said, this Bill was merely intended to render any person whom Her Majesty might appoint equivalent to the Clerk in ordinary of Council so far as regarded the signing of certain acts. It would, no doubt, save the expense to the country hitherto incurred by having two Clerks of the Council.
 MR. LOWE  replied, that he was unable to answer the question, but the amount would appear in the Estimates.
 MR. WALPOLE : I rise, Sir, to ask the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs a question on a subject of very great interest, whether he has received any official intimation of an armistice which is said to have been agreed on between France and Austria?
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE : Will the Chancellor of the Exchequer allow me to ask a question on a subject of great interest,— namely, when he will be likely to make his financial statement to the House, and whether he can name a day for so doing?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am very much obliged to the hon. Gentleman for giving me the opportunity of referring to this subject, since it is one in which the public convenience is very much involved, and my answer to which will depend upon what I may term the forbearance and self-denial of hon. Members, rather than upon the will of the Government. It is the salutary, judicious, and almost invariable rule of the House not to enter upon questions of Ways and Means until the House has passed its judgment upon those items of the expenditure of the year which are at once the greatest and most variable—namely, the Naval and Military Estimates; and my answer to the first question is that it is my intention to submit the financial statement to the House as soon as the Naval and Military Estimates have passed through Committee. If the hon. Member asks when that will be, I must reply by asking another question—how much time will be taken up by those hon. Members who have Motions of their own before going into Committee of Supply. The time might be readily calculated if it depended solely upon the statements made in bringing forward the Naval and Military Estimates, but that calculation might be fatally disturbed if upon successive evenings discussions should be interposed which occupy the greater part of the night. Without in the least wishing to interfere with the discretion of hon. Gentlemen, I must be allowed to point out that the period of the year is now very late, and that very great anxiety is felt by those engaged in the commerce of the country to know what arrangements may be proposed by the Government and adopted by the House with respect to the duty of providing means for meeting the demands of the year. Upon the other hand, I may remind hon. Members that upon the Miscellaneous Estimates, which must occupy many nights of the time of the House after the financial statement is made, there will be many opportunities of bringing forward any questions which they may have to urge as an Amendment to
 867
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he bad not intended to make that reference, but if the tenders to which the hon. Gentleman referred had been sent in, they would be within the scope of the reference of the Committee, and it would be within the province of the Committee to examine that and other lines and tenders.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was very sensible of the difficulty of this question, but he was afraid that it deserved ampler discussion than could possibly be given to it on that occasion. No doubt it involved topics of general policy, but with respect to legislation he could not move a step without calling in the advice of the law officers of the Crown. He should not express any opinion on the policy of the law which prevailed at the present time, which in substance had existed from time immemorial, and which gave a preference to the debts of the Crown; but he would confine himself strictly to the point raised by the question of his hon. Friend. His hon. Friend was not correct in saying that the obligations of the Crown were indiscriminately registered. That was far from being the case. There was a Treasury minute on the subject dated as far back as September, 1852, in which it was stated that it was not expedient to register any bonds in the office of the Common Pleas, except those of a permanent character, where the responsibility amounted to the sum of £1,000 or more for each party to the bond; and then it went on to say that in special cases the legal adviser of any department might, if he thought fit, require registration on his own responsibility, even though the particular bond might be for a less amount than £1,000, though given for a temporary purpose only. That was the basis of the general practice that had prevailed from that time to the present in the departments of the Customs, Excise, Stamps and Taxes, Woods and Works, Paymaster-General, National Debt-office, the War-office, and the Ordnance office, and the effect of it had been a very great reduction indeed in the practice of registration, which undoubtedly was attended with inconvenience. He could give his hon. Friend details for the purpose of showing to what a great degree this evil had been lessened. The total number of Crown bonds regis-
 871
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that the Estimates of the late Government were £10,800,000, and those now before the House were £12,682,000.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he had no objection to a single Vote being taken.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  would again move that the Chairman report progress.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he would move, for the third time, that the Chairman report progress.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he had to complain that the House was now called upon to vote nearly £2,000,000 without any explanation. He should therefore move that the Chairman report progress.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he thought the general feeling of the country would be that some explanation should be afforded with regard to the demand of £2,000,000 beyond the amount required by the late Government. The present Navy Estimates were nearly double the amount of any which had been asked for since the termination of the last war, and, although he was as anxious as any one to place the navy in a state of efficiency, he thought some explanation ought to be afforded on the subject.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, he quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman (Sir John Pakington) in his opinion as to the admirable manner in which his noble Friend had introduced the Estimates. He had done it in a clear sailor-like manner. The gallant Officer had told the Committee that he had got the Channel fleet up to 12 sail of the line; and he quite agreed with him that it was not desirable to confine that fleet to the Channel. What was objectionable was that they should have been lying in harbour from the time they were got up almost to the present moment. It was
 924 925 926 s 927 928
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER : Besides the mess utensils.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  remarked, that there was a Vote in the Navy Estimates for the new Dovor contract; and if that were voted to-night the House would he affirming the contract. He apprehended that the House would much prefer waiting to have the Report of the Contracts Commission before they gave such affirmation. He brought the subject last night before the consideration of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who told him that it should be considered by the Admiralty; and he hoped now to hear from the noble Lord in his reply to the question of the hon. and learned Gentleman that the Vote would not be called for till the Contract Commission should have reported on that particular contract.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he quite agreed with the hon. Member who had just spoken, that they ought to have a discussion which would settle the question once and for all, whether they should continue the present system at the Admiralty. It would be better to set apart a night for that purpose, instead of having continually to listen to a series of desultory attacks involving vague charges which there was no opportunity of answering properly. On the question of the bounty he could hardly give an opinion, because he was not aware
 941
 MR. BOWYER  remarked, that the noble Lord had stated that it was the duty of the Government to give such advice to the German Powers as might prevent the theatre of the war being extended. That was a very specious and plausible expression. In one sense every one would assent to it, but it was difficult to see to what extent the meaning of that expression might not be carried. He understood that the advice given by the Government to the German Powers was that they should observe a strict neutrality.
 MR. BOWYER  said, he understood that the despatch in question stated the view which the Government took of the course that the German Powers ought to pursue. Those Powers had not the advantage which we enjoyed of being an island; they were placed in a very different position to us. They had seen with considerable alarm this revolutionary war carried on by France and Sardinia against Austria. He called it a revolutionary war because it was carried on with appeals to nationalities, and by attempts to stir up the subjects of independent States, with whom neither France nor Sardinia had any cause of quarrel, to revolt against their Sovereigns. He was not unwilling to see the principle of Italian independence carried out; he had always felt that the question of Austrian power in Italy was a difficult one; but he could not shut his eyes to the fact that the present war was one of open and avowed conquest and carried on by revolutionary means, and in a manner quite new to the history of Europe. He did not wonder, therefore, that Germany saw with great anxiety the progress of the enormous, powerful, and apparently irresistible army of France. The noble Lord said that no advice had been given to the German Powers; still the House had a right to gather from what he said that the opinion of the Government was that the German Powers should remain perfectly passive in this matter, and should wait their turn, for their turn would
 887
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  asked, what would be the salary of the retiring clerk?
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said that he desired to advert to one or two points which had been raised in the course of the discussion. The first was to the non-employment in the Navy of appliances which had been introduced into the merchant service. It must be borne in mind that the manning of a ship of war was in relation to the guns and not to the rigging. Such appliances as patent trusses and blocks, with a strong ship's company, would be torn to pieces, and be of no earthly use. The patent truss was tried on board one of the hon. Company's ships and found to be unserviceable in the case of heavy yards. Besides, he was not aware that any mode of handling had been discovered which would reduce the number of men required to manage a 32-pounder. The subject of officers was not within the scope of inquiry of the Commission, but he thought it was one which merited investigation. It was very well to point to the number of admirals, and to say that so many were not fit for active service; but it was natural that during a forty years' peace men should grow old, and according to their interest or merit should rise to the highest grades, and owing to the more temperate habits of the period should live longer than their forefathers did. There was a long lieutenants' list, including men of all ages, some sixty or seventy years old, while a quarter-deck officer's efficiency rarely lasted beyond forty-five. In the year 1848 a Committee sat, presided over by the noble Duke now at the head of the Admiralty, to which were to be attributed many of the evils existing in the navy. The number of junior officers entering the service was restricted, and now there were three-decked ships with only six or seven midshipmen, instead of twenty. A man of war without midshipmen was crippled. With half-a-dozen efficient midshipmen he would dispense with a lieutenant or two. The consequence of the present system was that there was no rising junior class. He thought, instead of allowing old lieutenants to drag on a miserable existence upon a guinea a week, the fairest way would be to buy them out of the service when they had done a fair turn of work, and so keep the junior portion of the service in an efficient
 938 939 élite
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : After the speech of the noble Lord I am happy to say that I shall not think it necessary to detain the Committee at any length, nor have I the slightest complaint to make of the tone and manner in which he has treated this subject. On the contrary, I am anxious to bear my testimony to the ability with which he has performed his duty, and considering the very few days which he has held his present office, the Committee must feel that it is highly to his credit. I am bound, too, to acknowledge the candour and fairness with which he has referred to the efforts made by the late Government to increase the efficiency of
 917 918 919 920 921 William 922 923
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  remarked, that there was no ground for complaining of any attempt prematurely to pledge the House to the report of the Commissioners. They had made certain recommendations, and the vote referred to was for the purpose of carrying out part of their scheme. If the hon. Gentleman did not approve of that scheme, the constitutional time to object was when the Vote came before the Committee, and if he succeeded in persuading the Committee to agree with him and reject these items that part of the scheme would fall to the ground.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was
 900
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : For continuous-service men only.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The despatch of the Earl of Malmesbury which has been quoted by my noble Friend clearly does not confine itself to an intimation to Prussia, that if she went to war she must not count upon the support of England, but tells her she must reckon on something else—namely, the ravage of her coasts in the Baltic. The charge which was made against my noble Friend in the early part of this discussion was, that he had given advice to the German Powers. On the other hand, he admitted that he had simply given advice to Prussia, dissuading her from entering into the war which was then being waged in Italy; but the charges made being that my noble Friend had given advice to the German Powers, he proves from the blue-books that the Earl of Malmesbury did not merely give advice to the Diet to abstain from war, but pointed out the course it ought to pursue, and warned it of the dangers which would arise if it pursued a different line of policy from that which the late Government had shadowed out. The late Government protested against the steps which the Diet was going to take, and I do not find fault with them for having done so. I think they acted wisely in the course which in that respect they pursued, but then it is going too far to turn round upon us because we have, although only in a modified degree, adopted a similar policy. If there can be any charge against us, it is on the score that we have not protested against the conduct of the
 894
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that whatever might have been the fact in the case alluded to by the hon. Member, he (Viscount Palmerston) thought that while hon. Members had recently been suffering from the exhalations of the river close at hand, they would scarcely have criticised any course that would have rid thorn of the unpleasantness, oven at the risk of their being charged with License-burning. With respect, however, to the question put by the hon. Member, he believed that a Bill would come before them on Monday relating to the subject which had been brought under the consideration of the House. The Bill, he believed, was a private one, and though he did not think that was a proper way of dealing with matters of this sort, he thought that the time when the Bill was brought forward would be the proper one for making any suggestions that might be offered.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  hoped the hon. Gentleman would not persist in his Motion, as he believed the general feeling of the House was in favour of proceeding with the Votes.
 MR. ELLICE  (St. Andrews)  seconded the Amendment, and expressed his obligations to his right hon. Friend for bringing this subject under the consideration of the House. He (Mr. Ellice) came down to the House for the purpose of asking the Chancellor of the Exchequer when he intended to nominate his Committee on Contracts, and to raise a discussion with respect to the constitution of that Committee. It was of the utmost importance that the Committee should be composed of independent members. He complained that the Treasury gave their sanction to Bills of this description without the House having before them any of the grounds on which they did so; and he intended to call the attention of the House to that subject, which was altogether contrary to what used to be the practice of the Treasury. By the constitution of the Treasury it was intended to control the expenditure, not to originate it.
 MR. FITZROY  wished to set his hon. Friend (Sir Henry Willoughby) right on one point. His hon. Friend said the first opportunity they had of knowing the financial bearing of the Bill was by means of the Lords' Amendments. Now on that very point a Resolution was agreed to by a Committee of the whole House, which certainly was not carried  sub silentio.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  thought that the question before the House was whether they were to sanction a system which gave away the public money by a private Bill of which only about twelve or thirteen copies were printed, and by which the matter was not brought distinctly before the House. Until attention was drawn to the measure he was not aware of its provisions, and now he found that by one of the Lords' Amendments it was proposed to give a guarantee of 4½ per cent for fifty years on a sum of £800,000, which might be raised to £1,000,000. He did not wish to raise any impediment in the way of establishing telegraphic communications with India, but it was a great public question whether that House should bind the country for fifty years to pay the sum of £45,000 for this Red Sea Telegraph. Without adverting to the merits of the matter, he raised his voice against binding this country in such a way to give a guarantee on an undertaking not even now in existence. It would be far better to give the Chancellor of the Exchequer the entire power of making these guarantees without referring them to the House at all.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he was at a loss to understand what object could be attained by the postponement of the Bill with a view to its consideration by the Select Committee to be appointed to-night. Even if the contract should prove to have been improvident, so far as the public were concerned, the matter had gone so far that the faith of the House of Commons was pledged to the arrangement, and it would now be too late to back out of it. He thought this case showed that the forms of the House were defective, and that this discussion
 969
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  hoped the Speaker would inform the House how many copies of private Bills were circulated among hon. Members.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the restraint on printing the Holy Scriptures in the United Kingdom did not, as the hon. Gentleman seemed to think, and, as indeed, was the general opinion, rest merely on the patent given to the Queen's Printer;
 971 972
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that no legislation was required for the purpose of renewing the patent of the Queen's Printer. It was a grant which was derived from the prerogative; and there was no occasion at all for that House to legislate. The Government had come to no decision on the question. What he said was merely interlocutory, and they had no intention of renewing the patent at the present moment, and other opportunities would occur for bringing the matter under the consideration of the House during the present Session.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he held in his hand a letter from the Secretary of the Commissioners, in which it was stated that considerable progress had been made in the work—the witnesses from twenty-seven out of the thirty-four counties having already been examined, and there being every reason to believe that the Report would be presented before the close of the present year.
 MR. FITZROY  said, that the reason why only two dials of the clock were now made use of was that the minute hands, together with the counterpoises which had been ordered for the clock-tower, were subsequently found to be too heavy to be worked. The difficulty had arisen from the divided jurisdiction of the architect of the Palace and the maker of the clock. The weight originally proposed for the minute hand was 2 cwt.; but the material having been altered and gun metal used, the weight was increased to 3 cwt. outside the dial, with the addition of 4 cwt. of counterpoise within the clock-room. The consequence was that the total weight was 7 cwt. instead of 2 cwt. Instructions had been given to Mr. Dent, the maker of the clock, to construct minute hands and counterpoises of a proper weight. Some correspondence had taken place between the architect and the Department on the subject, but it did not throw much light on the subject, and he did not think it would be worth while to read it.
 MR. LINDSAY  thought the speech of the hon. and gallant Admiral was calculated to excite unnecessary alarm, which the Report of the Commission appointed by the late Government to inquire into the relative strength of the English and French navies afforded no ground for. He had a copy of their Report which bore date December, 1858, according to which
 996
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, as the forms of the House prevented him from replying at once to the hon. and gallant Member for Southwark, he now desired to do so in reference to the gallant Gentleman's observations regarding the execution of the Bounty.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  rose to order. He himself had been called to order by the Speaker at an earlier period of the evening, although he confessed he was not quite clear that he was at the time at all out of order: but the noble Lord was now clearly out of order in raising a discussion upon a subject that was not at all before the Committee. When he (Sir John Pakington) was interrupted he was asking a legitimate question at the right moment of the noble Lord—
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, he thought that the right hon. Baronet was now himself out of order.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : With great submission, I am speaking upon a point of order. If the noble Lord raises such a question as he was about to do, I shall have the right of reply.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he merely wished to explain some matters in | deference to his hon. and gallant Friend, whom he wished to set right.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  was at a loss to know where the necessity existed for so many additional clerks. If communications were addressed to the principal officers at Somerset House, instead of going through the present roundabout course, a great many clerks might be saved. Many more letters were written now than there was any occasion for. When he was appointed to command the Baltic fleet it took about ten letters to inform him of it.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was prepared to defend these Estimates, which were prepared by the late Government. He believed that the short experience of the present Government was sufficient to show them the insufficiency of the present establishment of clerks. Whatever might be the experience of the hon. and gallant Officer opposite as to the manning of the fleet, he (Sir John Pakington) did not think his experience was equally good as to the manning of the Admiralty. The work to be done was enormous, and was still increasing most rapidly. He was afraid that many more clerks would be required.
 MR. LINDSAY  objected to the employment of so many clerks. He thought
 998
 MR. BENTINCK  also deprecated the system of employing such a number of clerks in those offices. The fact was that we had four or five Boards of Admiralty at work at once. There was in the first instance a First Lord of the Admiralty, who generally on his appointment knew nothing about the navy, and a great deal of time was consumed in his endeavours to learn his business. They had then a number of Lords, who had no confidence in their head nor in each other, and issued their own orders in contradiction to their colleagues. Every sort of practical absurdity was going on from day to day. He did not, however, think that this was a moment for reducing the number of the clerks or of tampering with the Navy Estimates.
 MR. A. SMITH  called attention to an item of £8,000 for messengers. He wished to know how those messengers were to be selected.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  asked whether those additional clerks were taken into the Government establishments upon the understanding that when their services were no longer required they would be discharged.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  reminded the Committee that this Vote comprised not only the clerks in the Admiralty, but those in Somerset House. The whole number was about 300.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  was not prepared to give a precise answer to the question. He believed there would be a redistribution of clerks.
 MR. CORRY  said, those additional clerks were merely employed as temporary clerks.
 MR. JACKSON  thought that a great portion of the expenditure under this Vote arose from want of concentration in the offices.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that he would not enter into the question of volunteers, because the Secretary to the Admiralty had promised to introduce a Bill before this sum was expended, which would enable the House to discuss fully the important question of the manning of the navy. He wished to know when the Secretary to the Admiralty would introduce that Bill?
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  was anxious to introduce it as soon as the subject had been discussed at the Admiralty.
 MR. HENLEY  hoped when the Bill came before the House they would have the whole question of the bounty discuss ed, as it bore most materially upon the new scheme for creating a reserve for the navy.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the House would have an opportunity of discussing the bounty before that time, inasmuch as it would be raised in the shape of a simple estimate.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, when they discussed the question of bounty they ought to remember the improvements that had recently been made in the condition of seamen.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  thought the Committee ought clearly to understand that the only question that remained to be discussed was the recent extension of bounty by the present Government to seamen previously serving in the fleet. The Committee had nothing to do with the item for the bounty granted by the late Government, for that item had been already voted. That bounty, which he should be prepared at any time to defend, had been very successful.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he intended not to express any opinion at present, but merely to reserve his right to do so upon the question of how far the bounty already given, and that proposed to be given, would prove a successful plan of forming a reserve for the navy.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  intimated his intention to move, when the question came under consideration, that no bounty be paid to any men serving in any of Her Majesty's ships until the whole of the recommendations of the Commission for Manning the Navy had been carried out.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, the only reserve we had at present consisted of the coast volunteers and the coastguard. The coastguard were composed of seamen who had served a certain number of years in the navy and who were enjoying a sort of retirement, subject to be called into active service in the event of an emergency. In that retirement they naturally acquired shore habits, to some extent adverse to their efficiency. The coast volunteers were mixed up with them in the vote under consideration. Those coast volunteers, if properly managed, would be a very
 1000
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  regretted that the whole tenor of the discussion, instead of allaying the feverish agitation of the public mind should tend to excite it. Time we had to mature our preparations antecedent to the pressure of an emergency, and he trusted that the capacity of our resistance to an enemy might soon cease to be matter of debate: he had no fear that England would not be found ready in the event of an attempted invasion, although he did not think invasion at all probable. When they were told that by April 1860, they would have no less a number than sixty of the finest and largest screw line-of-battle ships, and already had thirty efficiently manned or in progress of being so, he asked hon. Members what cause was there for apprehension. With from 160,000 to 180,000 seamen and lads in the Mercantile Marine, it was clear they could send these sixty sail of the line to sea, in the course of two or three months, because there would be no employment for them in commerce, other than in confined extent; and they might rely upon it there was not one of the 160,000, who would not respond to the exigencies of the service in the event of war. If thirty sail
 1001 Arethusa, Arethusa," "They swear they'll invade us, these terrible foes, To frighten our children, our women, our beaux, But if e'er their flat bottoms in darkness get o'er, They Britons shall find to receive them on shore." The Times
 THE CHAIRMAN  interposed, and said the hon. and gallant Member was out of order.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, he would take another opportunity.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER : Good God, Sir! Does the gallant Admiral suppose that these 160,000 men are in the Thames, or at Bristol, or Liverpool? They are scattered all over the world.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : But you could get 50,000.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER : If there were a certainty of invasion to-morrow could he get 20,000.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : I would lay my life I could.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER : The merchant service is not so well manned as is
 1002
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : Yes he would.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER : I fought an action not long ago and half the crews were undisciplined men, and I saw that those men did not do their duty. I tell the gallant Admiral that if he wants men and sailors to fight and defend these ships they must be regularly disciplined and well-trained. All the gallantry and courage and determination to fight to their very stumps will not enable undisciplined men to meet disciplined men, any more than an undisciplined army can meet a disciplined army.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : I do not want them all efficient; I calculate there would be 30,000 men versed in gunnery, and I should only want men to work the guns and use the ropes of the ship.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, it was presumed that one-third of the seamen in the merchant service were always in this country. In such a dreadful emergency as invasion there would be no difficulty whatever in finding sufficient men at a moment's notice to man the fleet. With regard to the Vote before the Committee, he wished the noble Lord would fix a day when the important question of manning the navy could be fully discussed.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, he doubted that men would be found in an emergency so readily as was presumed by the hon. Member for Sunderland. In the Russian war seamen in the merchant service did not come forward in any numbers. From October, 1853, to December, 1854, only 153, and in the year 1855 only 258 men entered. He had been abused for speaking the truth, but he would maintain that there never was a British fleet sent to sea so infamously manned as the fleet he commanded in the Baltic. There were men in it who had never been aloft in their lives. He gave the word to anchor in a not very heavy gale of wind and the sails were not furled until four in the morning. If it had come on to blow they would not have been furled at all. He hoped the Admiralty, in case of another war, would not man the navy as they manned his fleet, with all the tinkers, tailors, butcher-boys, and cabmen they could pick up out of the streets of London. He was accused of alarming the country. He admitted that
 1003
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he believed that the Committee on Dockyard Expenditure had completed their Report, in which, with one exception they had been unanimous. He wished to ask the noble Lord when that Report would be presented to the House, and what was the reason it had not been laid upon the table as soon as it had been made to the Admiralty. He believed it had been signed and sent in some time ago.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he was as anxious to lay this Report upon the table as the hon. Member could be to see it. True it was the Report was given in, but it was not yet printed, or, to speak more accurately, it was not yet corrected. It was usual to give these Reports to the Members of the Committees in order that they might make the necessary corrections. This process was not yet completed, but when the Report was so corrected it would be brought to the Admiralty. His impression was that the Board of Admiralty would consider it fair to allow the heads of some of the principal departments who might be desirous to make some remarks upon the Report to do so. He believed that the Surveyor of the Navy and one or two other officers of departments wished to offer some observations on some of the details of that Report. The same thing was done on the report upon steam engines, when the right hon. Gentleman (Sir John Pakington) gave an opportunity to the heads of departments to add some observations to the Report. As soon as these reports were made the Report of the Dockyard Commission would be laid upon the table.
 MR. LINDSAY  was afraid it would be the object of certain parties to keep this Report back as long as possible, so that the House might not have it this Session. He trusted the noble Lord would see that there was no unnecessary delay in presenting the Report. It was very desirable the House should see it at once.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  wished to have some explanation relative to the increase of £100,000 on this Vote over the Estimate of the late Government. He announced that the late Government determined to add from 1,300 to 1,400 shipwrights to the Royal dockyards, and they took a sufficient grant of money to employ them for six months—namely, until next October. That was done upon the recommendation of the Surveyor of the Navy, who thought in the month of May that if these additional hands were employed for six months all the paddlewheel frigates might be repaired, and the steam reserve might be brought into that state in which the vessels might be put into commission. In addition to these repairs he had hoped that by adding these 1,300 men to the dockyards they would be able to convert two more line-of-battle ships, making 17 line-of-battle ships, instead of the 15 he had promised. He trusted that in deciding to double the Vote for these men the Government had consulted the Surveyor of the Navy. He hoped, also, that the noble Lord had himself looked into the matter, and had satisfied himself that the public service required the additional outlay. It was well to be on the safe side, and if the matter were even doubtful he would not oppose the grant.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  thought there must have been a misunderstanding between the right hon. Baronet and the Surveyor of the Navy on this point. The explanation given by the Surveyor of the Navy—and he was sure he would not state what he did not believe—was, that when the right hon. Baronet proposed an increase in the dockyards, and in the beginning of May last asked him what number of men should be taken on in order to carry out certain works, he did not contemplate that these men would be discharged at the end of six months. There might have been a misunderstanding, but the Surveyor of the Navy stated that from the first moment the subject was mentioned to him he thought it was absolutely necessary that the men should be taken on until the end of the financial year. He hoped the right hon. Baronet would think that the Admiralty had looked narrowly into the matter before they proposed the Vote.
 MR. CORRY  said, his recollection was that the Surveyor was asked what number of men would be necessary to complete certain works in six months, and his an-
 1005
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, this was a very serious question. Having had something to do with the supply of timber for Indian railways, he knew there was very great difficulty in obtaining timber for any purpose where scantling was required; and he would recommend that some of the unemployed artificers in the navy should be sent to the different ports on the African and Australian coasts, where vast and unexplored forests existed, for the purpose of procuring a supply. Every year the quantity of suitable timber was becoming less and less, and the subject was one which the Admiralty would do well to grapple with at once.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that although with all the predilections of an old soldier, he looked upon the navy as the natural defence of this country, and was willing to contribute what was necessary towards rendering it equal, not to the navy of one Power alone, but of all other Powers combined. He thought, however, that the results ought to be commensurate with the means employed—that was, to the money voted by the House—but when he looked at the enormous sums of money expended in our dockyards this did not seem to be the case. Since 1835 the Estimates had increased 200 per cent, having risen from £4,200,000 to £12,600,000 in the present year, and it might therefore be supposed that since that time we had three times the number of ships and of men. Nothing of the sort. Last year in the dockyards 10,850 workmen were employed, and among them 4,000 shipwrights. The noble Lord
 1006 s. d. s. s. s.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the dockyard battalions had been abolished by the Government which succeeded the first
 1007
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  called the attention of the Secretary of the Admiralty to the case of the seamen riggers, who, he said, had very hazardous and important duties to perform, while the wages of each were not more than 19 s. d.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  concurred in the testimony given by the hon. Member for Portsmouth in behalf of the Seamen Riggers and pronounced them to he a most valuable and meritorious class of men, and he ventured the recommendation to the Secretary of the Admiralty that the Board would take their Memorial into consideration.
 MR. LINDSAY  took occasion to quote from a published paper facts to the effect that the Admiralty anchors had been manufactured by the same firm since 1841; that the price paid by them for those which weighed fifteen tons was at the rate of £44 10 s. s. 1008
 MR. RIDLEY  drew attention to the Report of a Committee appointed to investigate the subject of steam coals for the Royal navy. Last year, according to instructions issued by the Admiralty, investigations were made as to Welsh and north country coals. The results were various, and Mr. Taplin, of Woolwich, was requested to draw up a new report on the subject. He reported, recommending the Government to undertake further experiments independent of all private parties; and he (Mr. Ridley) asked whether the Board of Admiralty had acted on the recommendation. The French Government had lately been buying coals largely in this country. He understood that they purchased any coals on the Admiralty list; and it was neccessary that that Hat should be drawn up with the greatest possible accuracy. Another important subject of investigation was the consumption of smoke, which many experiments had shown to be possible, and which had a great bearing upon the relative value of different coals.
 LORD LOVAINE  remarked that the consumption of smoke could be carried out so as to effect a considerable saving in the quantity of coals, and consequently in the expense. Attention, then, ought to be paid to the subject. Another matter to which he wished to draw the attention of the Admiralty was the system-of superheating steam, which promised enormous saving. Attention was also required as to the best means of coaling vessels in the navy. And on this and other analogous points it would be well for the present to follow the example of the late Board of Admiralty in entrusting the examination of different points of doubt to a scientific Board.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that the question raised with regard to anchors was one of great importance. It was not a question of one person's anchor over another's; but
 1009
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, there were perfect forests of anchors lying in all the dockyards, and the amount of capital wasted in them was perfectly incredible. It would be well to know by whose orders these anchors were constantly accumulating in every port. He also directed attention to the boats lying in Portsmouth dockyard, which in some tides were wet and in others dry. Why were these boats left to rot? He hoped that some steps would be adopted to take these boats a little higher up out of the water. There was an item for building gunboats by contract. He believed there was a great mistake in all the gunboats built. It was not chiefly gunboats that were wanted for service in the Baltic, but mortar vessels which would throw shells. The only use of gunboats was to protect the mortar vessels. Whether Armstrong's guns were superior to mortars he could not tell; but he had had experience of mortars at the siege of Martinique. Mortars were collected from every island in the West Indies, and the tremendous fort there was captured by mortars and mortars alone. Had there been mortars in the Baltic during the late war, not only Sweaborg but Cronstadt would have been annihilated. If there was war with France it would be with mortars, not with gunboats, that they would attack Cherbourg. Before the report of these Estimates passed he would insist on being told the history of these anchors; also on receiving an account
 1010
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  could only answer for himself as to what had occurred regarding Trotman's anchors when he was at the Admiralty. He, of course, knew nothing of the quality of these anchors from his own personal knowledge, but on consulting practical naval officers the reply he received was that they did not in their experience find them to answer. He was told that Trotman's anchor, when once it could be got to hold, was a good one, but that officers could not rely on its taking hold. Now, of course, if it did not hold, the most valuable quality of an anchor was wanting. His hon. Friend (Mr. Bentinck) asked why they had not given Trotman's anchor a fair trial. In reply, he might state that one of his last acts before leaving the Board of Admiralty was to issue directions for giving the anchor a further trial. With regard to the hon. and gallant Admiral's question about the gunboats which they proposed to build, he had to state that it was proposed to build eighteen, which would be of a much larger size than the ordinary gunboats, that the latter could only carry their guns along the coast, whereas these new boats would be able to carry their guns all over the world.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  contended that the system adopted by the Admiralty for procuring coal led to their receiving not the best, but a very inferior description of coal. The mode was this,—there was a list of a great many different kinds of coal made out, those varying in price to the extent of 25 per cent. The Admiralty issued an offer to receive tenders for a supply of coal, and the persons who made the tender were free to supply the Admiralty with any of these kinds of coal. The tender was made, and the Admiralty almost invariably got the worst of the coal. He spoke from his own knowledge when he said that the owners of the best coal never thought of tendering to the Admiralty. The large steamboat companies obtained the best article, and the owners who supplied them with coal never supplied the Admiralty. He would suggest that the Admiralty should either reduce the list and strike off the inferior quality of coal, or that they should send agents to the coal districts to inquire into the nature of the coal, with the view of getting the very best article,
 1011
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he had on a former occasion asked the right hon. Member for Droitwich (Sir John Pakington) why the Report of the Committee of 1852 had not been adopted, and the answer was that the report of a body of naval officers was at variance with the Report of the Committee, and was unfavourable to Trot-man's anchors. Now, great injustice would be done to Mr. Trotman if such a statement remained uncorrected, and he therefore felt it right to say that there had been no report unfavourable to Trotman's anchors from any officer in Her Majesty's service. His noble Friend the Secretary to the Admiralty (Lord Clarence Paget) shook his head, but the Report applied to Porter's, and not to Trotman's anchors. He had perused all the reports which had been presented to the Admiralty up to this time last year, and he could state that none of them were unfavourable to Mr. Trotman. He still wished that some better information were afforded to the House as to why the Report of 1852 had not been acted upon, and why Mr. Trotman was refused the trial for which he asked. With regard to the new gunboats, he hoped they would be perfectly efficient craft, and that they would not come within the grasp of the right hon. Member for Halifax (Sir Charles Wood), whose mode of dealing with vessels of that class did not seem, from the discussions which took place last year, to have been attended with very fortunate results.
 MR. CLAY  was glad that the Admiralty were disposed to give Trotman's anchors a further trial, but this was a question between the Admiralty anchor and the six other descriptions of anchors, and he thought the House ought to know whether the same defect which was attributed to Trotman's anchor was attributed to all the others.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  hoped the attention of the Government would be directed to the number of vessels of war in ordinary at Hamoaze, in the Medway, and at Portsmouth, which were decreasing in value day by day, and which it would require great expenditure to render serviceable.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  feared that he could not give a very satisfactory answer to some of the questions which had been put to him. The subject of anchors was one with which the Admiralty had
 1012
 MR. CORRY  said, that Trotman's and
 1013 Prince
 MR. BENTINCK  regretted that the hon. Gentleman, like his right hon. Friend the Member for Droitwich, had fallen into the mistake of confounding Trotman's with Porter's anchor as being the same in principle. Mr. Trotman himself protested against it as an injustice, for it was not the same in principle, and it was admitted by the Admiralty to be 35 per cent better in the efficacy of its hold.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  expressed his approval of the gunboats which had been built by contract. Some time ago he visited Haslar, where he found the greater part of the old gunboats under repair, and he exhibited some fragments from their bottoms, which showed the injury they had sustained from being alternately wet and dry. Their launching depended upon the longest and finest screw of the sort which had ever been constructed, and if anything happened to it they could not be got to sea. He had been of the same opinion as the hon. Member for Sunderland with regard to the cost of machinery for the navy, until he read the Report of the Committee on marine engines and boilers. The hon. Gentleman read a copious extract from the Report of the Committee, showing that the mistakes which had in former times been committed with respect to naval machinery had been discovered and remedied.
 MR. KINNAIRD  called attention to an item of £50,000 for the purchase of a site for coal stores at the head of the great harbour at Malta. In 1858 a sum of £23,000 was proposed by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Halifax (Sir Charles Wood) for the purchase of this very property, having fifteen or sixteen tenements upon it, and that amount was then regarded as a very liberal estimate of its value. The exorbitant feature was certain
 1014 jus luendi. 1015
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  wished, as far as he was concerned, to deal with this question with perfect frankness. He could now only repeat what he told the House in the month of March, when he had to move a Supplementary Estimate, that it was quite an accidental circumstance that this item came before Parliament in the Estimates for the present year. The House ought to understand, especially after the Amendment moved by his hon. Friend, that this was only a re-vote. He had never been at Malta, and therefore was not acquainted with the land in question; but the decided opinion of all the naval officers with whom he had communication, including Sir Richard Dundas, now the senior Lord of the Admiralty, was, that it was absolutely necessary for the public service that it should he in the hands of the Government. The House could not make a greater mistake than to repudiate the bargain. In the Estimates of 1858, framed by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir C. Wood), there was a Vote of £23,000 for the purchase of the land; but that was a purely conjectural Estimate, for the Government valuator at Malta valued the property at £31,000, while the owner thought it was worth £120,000. Subsequently, however, he agreed to split the difference, and take £76,000 for the laud, which the Colonial Secretary at Malta valued at £60,000. Under these circumstances the late Government offered £50,000, and as the proprietor was willing to accept that sum, the Admiralty should be authorized to complete the bargain at once.
 MR. KINNAIRD  congratulated the hon. Gentleman on so quickly assuming the Government tone in defending a job. The fact was Signor Casolani paid only £15,000 for this land, for which £50,000 had been offered by the Government. This remind-
 1016
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he could not tell all the original details of this affair. He himself knew Malta well; he could say this land would be very useful, but he did also think that they were to pay a great deal too much for it. He was afraid, however, that if Government did not buy it, there would be no subscription to buy it, as in the case of the chapel alluded to. Moreover, the good faith of the country was pledged to the purchase.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, it was exceedingly desirable that the land should he purchased. It was very important to have the harbour of Malta placed in the best possible military state.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that Parliament had assented to the purchase of land at Malta at a price of £50,000, and to repudiate the Vote now would be to present the sight of one Parliament undoing the act of another.
 MR. MAGUIRE  complained, that of £11,000,000 voted for the Navy Estimates a trifle only was spent in Ireland, in violation of repeated pledges from various Governments that Ireland should have a fair share in the public expenditure. The hon. and learned Member proceeded to call the attention of the Government to the capabilities of Cork Harbour.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  complained of a plan, which he said had been drawn up by the late First Lord of the Admiralty, but without the approval of the other Lords, for disposing of old naval officers.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the question alluded to by the hon. and gallant Admiral was one of the most difficult questions connected with the whole interests of the naval service, and he suggested that that was not an hour (twenty minutes past twelve) at which the Committee should enter upon its discussion. He entirely protested against the plan alluded to being discussed in the House of Commons. It was perfectly true that he did prepare a plan which, if he had remained in office, he should certainly have endeavoured to carry into effect. But that plan was not shown to any one except in confidence, and it was never finally adopted or promulgated. He therefore must protest against the right of the gallant Admiral to come down to the House of Commons and pretend to give a description of what he had no right to know anything.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER : The plan was not communicated to me in confidence. It was mentioned to several officers by the right hon. Gentleman himself, who gave the plan to them, and I think that as it was shown to me, and my opinion was asked upon it, and my name signed to a petition to the Queen against its adoption, I was at perfect liberty to mention it in this House. I tell the right hon. Baronet that I do not believe he could have put that plan in force. It was entirely objected to by his own Board.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : The hon. and gallant Admiral has taken a most irregular and disorderly course. His last statement is not correct. The whole of the Board of Admiralty were not opposed to that plan; but I deny the right of the hon. and gallant Admiral to bring on a discussion in this House of a paper that was never finally adopted. I never did show that plan to any one except in confidence. I do not deny that some one may have given him a copy of it; but I tell him, that inasmuch as it bore the word "confidential" at the head of it, he had no right to make a public use of it. I could give no better proof of the unfairness, injustice, and impropriety of his making a public use of it than by telling him that one of the last things I did before leaving the Admiralty was to draw up a modification of that paper.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER : I beg to deny that it was a confidential paper. It was no such thing. It was shown to the whole of the Admirals resident in London, who signed a petition to Her Majesty against it. Now, if that can be called a confidential paper I do not know what confidential papers are. The civil Lord of the Admiralty, I believe, said very little about the plan. I believe the Dovor Lord did not make any great objection to it; but all the old sailors who were on the Board did object to it.
 MR. LINDSAY : I was one of the number that received this document. It was printed, and had not been revised. It was marked in the corner of it "Confidential." Seeing it thus marked I certainly would never think of naming its contents out of this House, much less in this House. It was with the view of that plan being fully discussed on a future evening, at a more suitable hour, that I moved that the Chairman should report progress.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER : My hon. Friend may have supposed that this was a confidential paper, but I put it to the House whether a paper that has been shown to all the old Admirals residing in London, and with respect to which a petition to the Queen has been signed, can be called a confidential paper or not.
 MR. GILPIN , in moving the second reading of the Bill, said the Bill had been introduced to correct a difficulty which had been introduced to correct a difficulty which had arisen in consequence of a decision by the Court of Exchequer Chamber, and to enable the Board of Guardians of the City of London Union to clear themselves from debts which they had properly and rightfully incurred.
 MR. WALTER  said, that although that portion of the Bill which required the settlement of debts by Boards of Guardians within twelve months might be unobjectionable, the second clause was of a differ-
 1019 ex post facto 1020
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he assumed to himself whatever faults there were in the Bill, as he believed it was identical with one which he introduced when President of the Poor Law Board. Notwithstanding the hard words of the hon. Gentleman, he believed he should be able to show that the Bill was founded on equity. The ordinary understanding with regard to Boards of Guardians had always been that current expenses should be met by current rates. Boards of Guardians were trusted by their tradesmen like private gentlemen. There had never been a question until two years ago but that expenses fairly incurred by Boards of Guardians might be met by their raising rates for the purpose. About a year and a half ago the question was first raised, and the Court of Queen's Bench were of opinion that the law would permit Boards of Guardians to pay retrospective accounts. Appeal was made to the Court of Exchequer Chamber, and the Exchequer Chamber reversed the decisions of the Queen's Bench, and determined that it was not competent for Boards of Guardians to pay any expenses by means of rates which were levied after the debts had been incurred. They laid it down so strictly, he believed, that if a debt were incurred on Christmas Day it was not competent for the Board of Guardians to pay it by means of a rate made on the 4th of January. It was therefore illegal for them to pay by any other mode than ready money, and he believed the
 1021
 MR. AYRTON  said, it would be necessary for the Poor Law Board to consider the manner in which this Bill was drawn.
 1022
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that considering the advanced period of the Session, he should have thought it more convenient to accede to the second reading now, and then to discuss the clauses in Committee. The Bill consisted of two parts, which had grown out of one decision. Various frauds were committed in the City of London Union, the effect of which was that the creditors of that and other unions were defrauded of their just debts, In consequence of that defalcation, orders were made by the Board of Guardians for the payment of rates to supply the deficiency. The legality of these orders was contested, but the Queen's Bench decided in their favour. The matter was then brought before the Exchequer Chamber, where a decision was given virtually establishing the principle that Boards of Guardians could not take a single day's credit. This was a principle which had never hitherto been acted upon by the Poor Law authorities of this country, either before or since the passing of the Poor Law Amendment Act. Tradesmen who had dealt with these Boards had always given credit. The main object of the Bill, therefore, was to legalize what had always been the practice in such cases. He did not wish now to discuss whether a year was too long or too short a period, but he could not help thinking that the first clause of the Bill conferred upon Boards of Guardians not only a reasonable but a necessary power, or otherwise a principle would be established in their case which existed with respect to no other municipal body. For the reasons which he had stated, he thought there could be no doubt that it was necessary the first clause of the Bill should, in substance, be passed into a law. The second clause related mainly to the City of London, in whose case it was evident loss must be incurred by some one; and, as it was mainly through the neglect of the guardians that the frauds in question had been committed, it was, he thought, but fair to ask by whom those guardians had been elected. There was no doubt that they were elected by the ratepayers; and it therefore seemed to him that the loss which had been occasioned would fall more equitably on those ratepayers than on the tradesmen, who trusted the guardians in accordance with a practice which was at the time when the credit was given almost univer-
 1023
 MR. JOHN LOCKE  would support the Motion for the Adjournment. He thought the arguments of the Home Secretary were the most extraordinary he had ever heard. The right hon. Gentleman advocated the Bill for the purpose of upsetting the decision of the Court of Exchequer Chamber, although that decision only recognized what had been the universal practice and settled law. All Boards of Guardians were bound at the beginning of each year to make a rate to meet all their probable expenses, and had no right to take credit. The hardship on the tradesmen in this case was not so great, as they must have known the risk which they incurred when they intrusted the Board of Guardians beyond their term of office. They had not, besides, sent in their bills in proper time, and therefore they had not been subjected to that hardship which might at the first blush appear to have been the case. He, therefore, saw no reason why an alteration in the law should be introduced, or why a decision which had been come to by the Court of Exchequer Chamber, after due deliberation, should be upset.
 MR. HENLEY  would not again move the Adjournment if the right hon. Gentleman would undertake to bring on the discussion on going into Committee at a reasonable hour.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  would do his best, but he must remind the House that as every Government night would be devoted to Supply, he would have some difficulty unless a morning sitting were appointed.
 MR. FITZROY  said, the question was mainly one of finance, and if his hon. Friend could establish that the improvement would be of great public advantage and could be effected at a small cost all difficulty would vanish. But he ventured to join issue with his hon. Friend on those points. His hon. Friend, in the first place, did not seem aware of the steps which wore necessary, and appeared to think that all he had to do was to ask for a small Vote; whereas an Act of Parliament would be required in order to carry out the object wished for. But he was prepared to maintain that instead of being a great public advantage very few persons were interested in the proposed improvement. Reference had been made to the Committee which sat on this subject; but it should be rememberd that many of the arguments then used had ceased to apply now that a new passage had been made by Marlborough House. The advantage gained by opening this new road would be confined to a small portion of the public, who would be benefited to the extent of only a few yards; and was it worth while therefore to throw the expense of effecting it upon the great bulk of the public, depriving the poor, at the same time, of a quiet nook in the Park where they and
 982 octroi
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, that before the Chief Commissioner rose to answer the Question he wished to make one or two observations to the House. He thought his hon. Friend the Member for Perth made a mistake which was not uncommon in not distinguishing between the Office of Woods and the Office of Works. In 1848 he was chairman of a Committee which reported in favour of the disconnection of the Offices of Woods and Works, their functions being perfectly distinct—the Woods being an office of revenue, and the Works being an office of expenditure. The duties of the Office of Woods were important, having to manage the property which had been the freehold of the Crown since the Norman Conquest, and he found that the gross receipts of Crown property for the last year was £420,000, while the civil list was only £382,000. The hon. Member for Perth seemed to think that the property of the Crown was the property of the country. That was not the fact. The Crown was the owner, possess-
 979
 COLONEL DICKSON  rose to ask the late Secretary of State for War whether he had noticed a letter in  The Times
 COLONEL DICKSON  proceeded to read the following extract from the letter in question:—
 "General Peel is reported to have stated last night that we have in these islands a force of 110,000 men. I should like to know where this force is located. We hear of 20,000 men at Aldershot and of 10,000 at the Curragh of Kildare. Where are the rest? Does General Peel include marines ashore, recruits in readiness for India, enrolled pensioners, and Irish police? I rather think he does, and, as the French Emperor, and, indeed, all foreign Governments, know those matters better than we do ourselves, I may as well mention that such exaggerated statements are but calculated to throw dust in the eyes of the people of this country, who, heavily taxed, expect a respectable and well-trained army for the large sums ungrudgingly voted." 988
 GENERAL PEEL  regretted that the time of the House should be occupied so much in asking and answering questions arising out of anonymous letters in the newspapers. For his own part he always treated these personal accusations with the greatest possible contempt. However, as the question put by his hon. and gallant Friend was a proper one, and as it was important that the House should know the exact number of troops that were in the country, he would, without hesitation, reply to it. His hon. Friend the Member for West Surrey (Mr. Briscoe) stated the other night that there were only from 30,000 to 40,000 soldiers in the country, and in noticing his observations, he (General Peel) stated that he was mistaken— that the number of troops in the country amounted to nearly 110,000. He at the same time stated that this number included the embodied militia. It did not, however, include that fine body of men, the marines ashore, the enrolled pensioners, who were certainly fit for better service than the writer of this letter attributed to them; neither did it include the constabulary force of Ireland. He held in his hand the last return made to him before he left office, dated 1st of
 989
 MR. WILLIAMS  said, that having devoted some time to the consideration of the Navy Estimates he was anxious to offer a few observations on them. They were above those of any year of peace for the last forty years. He would not compare them with those for 1835 or any year about that time; he would take as a comparison those of 1852, the year before we commenced preparations for the Russian war. In 1852 the Navy Estimates amounted to £5,668,000; this year they were £12,862,000, being an increase of £7,200,000. They were told that the increase of the Navy Estimates was owing to the introduction of a new element into naval warfare by the invention of the screw. The screw was introduced in 1851. In 1852 we had five screw line-of-battle ships. Franco had two for that year. From the close of 1852 the Government of this country and that of France had run a race in building screw-line-of-battle ships. What was the result? It appeared that this country and France were, as regarded line-of-battle ships, at the present time on an equality, each country having twenty-nine; whilst France, as regarded frigates, had eight more. They were informed by the late First Lord and by the present Secretary to the Admiralty that next year this country would have fifty line-of-battle ships, and France only forty: but as she
 990 s. s. d. 991 Princess Royal, Princess Royal 992 Constitution, Java, Constitution,
 COLONEL DUNNE , who had given notice of his intention to call the attention of the House to the mutiny of European troops in the Indian army, and a demand for a bounty upon re-enlistment, said, that he had understood from the Secretary of State for India that it would not be for the interest of the public service that any discussion upon this subject should take place at the present moment, and therefore he was willing to defer the remarks which he had to make upon it.
 MR. KINNAIRD  rose, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of the House to the advisability of taking advantage of the present opportunity of Berkeley House having been pulled down to secure a road for the passage of carriages and horses from Charing Cross through Spring Gardens into St. James's Park. Foreigners who visited London were surprised at the little progress made in the improvement of the metropolis, and this was one of the reasons why the House had bestowed so much labour on the measure which created the present Board of Works. It was important that the House should assist rather than impede that Board in matters affecting the public welfare. Two questions now arose. One was, whether the Parks, for which such large sums were annually voted, should be comparatively closed to the public, or whether the recommendations of a Committee of that House, made after due deliberation, should be carried out. The House would remember that great difficulty was experienced in obtaining so simple a change as opening a communication between the district of Belgrave Square, and St. James's Street, through the Park. Not the slightest objection could now be found against that change, except as to the manner in which it had been carried out. The Report of the Committee recommended that the gate near the German Chapel should be made ornamental, and that there should be an iron railing; instead of which, from some incomprehensible jealousy, large and ugly walls had been erected on each side the thoroughfare, which completely shut out the view of the adjoining gardens. In fact, everything appeared to have been done to make the alteration distasteful, and the Government had thus lost an opportunity of beautifying that part of the metropolis. Another opportunity now presented itself of carrying out the views of
 977 978
 MR. KINNAIRD  observed that there was nothing peculiar or irregular in the way in which the Bill had passed through its stages. The principle now laid down with respect to these grants was no doubt very correct: but the House was bound to consider the position of the shareholders in this case. The shareholders of the line were now in this position that, after a Government guarantee had been distinctly given, and after they had on its faith expended three fourths of the capital, the guarantee was now disputed, while at the same time they were not able to complete the line because they could not make a call or borrow money until the present Bill passed. Any delay would be most prejudicial to them, and he must say that the present proceeding savoured very much like repudiation. He must warn the House that it would be most prejudicial to the public service if the commercial classes were to find that the guarantee of the Treasury was worth nothing. It should be borne in mind that this undertaking was projected during a great crisis in the affairs of this country—namely, during the Indian Mutiny, when rapid communication between India and this country was of vital importance.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  replied, that about 600 pensioners bad been called out. As a general rule, when the pen-
 975
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : I think that the best proof that I can give to the House that I did explain to some extent the reasons which have induced Her Majesty's Government to come to the determination of extending the bounty is, that the right hon. Baronet has been occupied for a length of time in answering the reasons I gave. The right hon. Baronet asks why I did not at at the time enter into more detail with respect to that measure; and I will tell the right hon. Baronet frankly that the reason was that I was not on Friday last in a position to enter into all the details that I could have wished to give on the subject. I was in possession of the decision of the Government, but the Order in Council, which has since been issued, was not in my hands at that time, and I was very anxious, until the Order in Council was actually issued, not to state anything which might by any chance be mistaken. I very much regret that the right hon. Baronet has not taken the advice that I took the liberty to offer him a little while ago, and put off his questions until I bring in the Estimate, which I shall do in a very
 987
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  agreed with all that had fallen from the noble Lord as to the impropriety of taking away Crown property. He did not wish to enter upon the question as to whether the Board of Works should have its offices in Soho or Spring Gardens; but he desired to make
 980
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : What I stated was that an official intimation of an armistice had been received by me from the French Ambassador, but that this official information did not go beyond that contained in the  Moniteur.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I have no further official information, except a telegram from Her Majesty's Ambassador at Paris.
 MR. DISRAELI : I am afraid I have very imperfectly expressed my meaning. What I wanted to know from Her Majesty's Government was whether any further information, except the formal communication of the armistice which the noble Lord announced on Friday, has been officially
 976
 MR. DISRAELI : The country heard last Friday with gratification that an armistice had been entered into between the Allies and the Emperor of Austria. I wish now to inquire of Her Majesty's Government whether they have received official intimation of the event from the Government of France, and whether the armistice is a mere military convention, or whether, on the other hand, the Government can hold out to the House any prospect that negotiations for peace will be prosecuted in consequence.
 MR. DISRAELI  explained, that he had been in error in saying that the guarantee to the Atlantic Telegraph Company was an absolute one. He had been misled by the original agreement, which had been cancelled.
 MR. DISRAELI  thought it right to observe that the resolution to support this Company adopted by the late Government was influenced by motives of public policy. The whole question of guarantees was at an early period brought under their con-
 967 968
 MR. BUTLER  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce any measure during the present Session by which the mode of assessment and collection of the Income Tax by local unpaid commissioners would be altered; and if so, in what manner it would be proposed to make such assessments and collection?
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the House must appreciate the course which the hon. and gallant Gentleman had taken in this matter. The question was in the hands of the Indian Government, in communication with the Commander-in-Chief in India; and he was of opinion that the interest of the public service required that until their decision had been given no opinion should be pronounced upon it in that House.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he was glad to find that the right hon. Gentleman had so completely disposed of the proposal which was under the consideration of the House. He must, however, protest against the doctrine to which the right hon. Gentleman seemed disposed to lend the sanction of his high authority, that one shilling of the Imperial funds should be laid out for the promotion of merely local objects.
 MR. HADFIELD  asked if the Government would suspend the renewal of the patent until the House had had an opportunity of expressing an opinion on the subject. He thought the right hon. Gentleman was much mistaken as to the cheapness of the work.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he would not enter into the question as to whether it was desirable and necessary that they should have an electric line to India, but he thought the terms granted to this Company were such that it would have been better if the Government had made the line themselves. He should support the Amendment.
 MR. H. HERBERT  alluding to the remarks which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman in reference to what he had termed a "quiet nook," which it was desirable to preserve intact for the benefit of the children of the neighbourhood, said, there was immediately adjoining that spot a triangular piece of land from which that interesting portion of the community were shut out, apparently for no particular reasons, and to which they might be admitted with advantage. It would therefore be well if the right hon. Gentleman would direct his attention to the matter and see whether the ground in question might not be made available for the purposes of recreation.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, it might be perfectly true that every stage of this Bill had been regularly gone through and all the usual opportunities for discussion afforded; but at the same time this was the first time that the attention of the House had been called to this question. This matter came before the House as a Private Bill; but it was impossible to deny that there were considerations of a public nature connected with it. It was a Bill not merely brought forward by private parties, but a Bill to carry out an arrangement between those private parties and the public, and the House ought to satisfy itself that the measure was a sound one. He was rather surprised to find that the defence of the Bill had been left to the private parties who were promoting it; he should have thought that the Secretary to the Treasury in the late Government would have supported the Bill. He should certainly support the Motion of his right hon. Friend the Member for Carlisle. He thought it high time that the serious attention of the House should be called, as the attention of the country was called, to these grants of the public money by the Government. He did not deny that it was of great public importance to have telegraphic communication between this country and India, and he was not prepared to say at that moment that Government was not perfectly right in giving their sanction to this Bill; but in order that the House
 961
 MR. WILSON  said, he had understood the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) to say that there had been two exceptions in the time of the late Government to the principle of a contingent guarantee— namely, the Red Sea Telegraph and the Atlantic Telegraph. This was the first time he had heard that an absolute guarantee had been given to the Atlantic Telegraph Company, which, he always understood, had received only a contingent guarantee. He must, however, bear his testimony to the accuracy of the right hon. Gentleman's statement that the late Government had exhausted, but in vain, every means in their power to find parties ready to take up the project of a Red Sea Telegraph on the principle of a contingent guarantee.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that copies of private Bills were printed by their promoters, and circulated in considerable numbers among hon. Members on both sides of the House, and that it was in the power of any hon. Member to obtain a printed copy of any private Bill, by applying to the Doorkeepers of the House.
 MR. SPEAKER : The right hon. Baronet has only a right to explain.
 MR. SPEAKER  wished, before putting the question, to say a word on a point of form. In the case of this Bill and two other Bills of a similar nature—namely, the Indian and Australian and the Atlantic Telegraph Bills, in which there were guarantees of public money, the clauses containing the guarantees not having been printed in Italics the first copies of the Bills had been by his direction withdrawn, and fresh Bills presented, with the clauses in question printed in italics, and therefore specially inviting the attention of the House to them. The merits of this question did not come within his province. If there had been anything informal or irregular—anything that contravened the rules and privileges of that House in the Amendments made by the Lords—it would have been his duty to bring them under notice. But there was nothing of that nature in those Amendments. With respect to the inquiry addressed to him by the hon. Member for London—namely, what was the exact Question now before the House? the answer was "Whether the House would agree to the Amendments of the Lords." The Question certainly was not whether the House would revise or reconsider parts of the Bill to which it had given its assent, and which the other House had also accepted.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the House permitted great latitude of discussion on the Motion for going into Committee of Supply; but the right hon. Gentleman was even going beyond that latitude, when he replied in the House to a speech made in Committee.
 MR. SPEAKER  intimated that the hon. and gallant Colonel was not out of order, as the Question was that the House resolve itself into a Committee of Supply.
 MR. ROEBUCK : I called the right hon. Gentleman to order, not because I did not wish to hear him, for I am always desirous of hearing him, but because no Member can speak twice on the same subject.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, that his hon. Friend who had just spoken had anticipated
 964
 MR. SLANEY  also urged upon the right hon. Gentleman the propriety of acting, if possible, on the suggestion which had just been made to him. It would further be desirable that he should take into his consideration the expediency of facilitating the communication between Tyburnia and Prince's Gate, by widening the road, taking it by the top of the Serpentine, and thus relieving Park Lane of a portion of its traffic.
 MR. GREGSON  said, that the only Amendment of the slightest importance, except the schedule, was the omission of the clause giving borrowing powers to the Company. The project was before the public for eighteen months before the guarantee was obtained, a prospectus issued in 1857, promising a 5 per cent conditional guarantee from the East India Company, having failed to induce the public to subscribe. He had received a letter from Mr. Cawthorn, the broker to the company, a gentleman of high respectability, who said:—
 "You will recollect the anxious deliberation bestowed upon the extent of guarantee to be given by the Government to the Red Sea Telegraph
 958 s. d. s. s. d, s.; s. d. 
 
 Land Line:— Miles. 
 Alexandria to Suez 220 
 Submarine:— 
 Suez to Cosseir 260 
 Cosseir to Suakin 474 
 Suakin to Aden 636 
 Total 1590 
 Aden to Halleani (Koori Moorio) 730 
 Halleani to Muscat 490 
 Muscat to Kurrachee 458 
 Total to India from Alexandria 3268 ex officio 959 "The cable was laid without any difficulty between Suez and Aden, the greatest depth being 500 fathoms, and the bottom soft throughout. It works admirably (according to the engineer's report, better than any line hitherto laid), and has been continually at work, though not handed over to the Company till thirty days after laying. There has been an interruption at Cosseir, caused by an Egyptian steamer dragging her anchor in a gale of wind. It is probably repaired by this time, being in the harbour, and in shallow water Mr. Lionel Gisborne, the engineer, telegraphed by this line the loss of the  Alma
 MR. LAING  said, that the Submarine Telegraph Company had recently obtained from the French Government a concession which gave them for thirty years a preferential right to lay down telegraphic cables between England and France. Her Majesty's late Government, objecting to that monopoly, used all their interference to prevent its concession; but failing in that with the French Government they resolved to exercise their jurisdiction on these shores by preventing the Company from laying down the cable on this side of the water; and orders were issued by the Admiralty that force should be used, if necessary, to carry out the intention of the Government
 974
 MR. HANKEY  asked the First Commissioner of Works what was the reason why only two faces of the clock in the clock-tower were now made use of? Also, whether there had been any late correspondence between the maker of the clock and the architect of the Houses of Parliament or the Board of Works; and, if so, whether there was any objection to lay such correspondence before the House?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there was no such intention.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that this was a question of very considerable nicety and delicacy; and he thought it his duty, holding the office he did, to state to the House what considerations occurred to him. He must say that he was a little disappointed when the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir S. Northcote) declined to enter into the question of the Motion of the right hon. Member for Carlisle, stating that was an affair for the Government and the parties to consider; for the right hon. Baronet was the official organ of the Government that made this contract.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not mean to state that the right hon. Baronet made the contract, but only that he was the official organ of the Government that did so. He wished simply to state to the House the view he took of the position of the Government
 965 966 "Arrangements of great importance have been made between the Government and the Company; principles of great moment to the public interests arc involved in those arrangements; and as a Committee is about to be appointed to inquire into the general question, let us have an opportunity of ascertaining accurately what we are asked to do."
 MR. TITE  said, that he was not a Member of the Metropolitan Board of Works at the time the arrangement for removing from Greek Street to Berkeley House was agreed to, but he nevertheless thought it a wise one, because the latter office was much too small for the transaction of their business, and being freehold, the land would probably sell to advantage, and produce sufficient to enable them to construct the new buildingson the site of Berkeley House. That which had been removed projected eleven feet beyond the line of the Houses on the West side of New Street, but the Metropolitan Board, in the erection of the new house would build it upon a line with other houses. The passage, which was now 220 feet long by 8 feet broad, would in future he 150 feet long and 21 feet wide, which, though very convenient for foot passengers, would not admit a carriage road. But inasmuch as a new terminus was about to be brought to Chelsea, it was thought that the roadway in Birdcage Walk would be much crowded, and this proposal was
 981
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether he could give any information as to the proceedings of the Royal Commission appointed to inquire into the management of Roads in Scotland, and when they were likely to publish their report.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  rose to order. He believed that the House was going into Committee on the Navy Estimates, and not on the Army Estimates.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  remarked, that if they intended to open a passage from the Strand into the Park they had better take a road that was already made. There was a house occupied as the Coastguard Office, which, if pulled down, would leave a much more sightly entrance than any he had yet heard of.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, he entered the Service in 1800, and served afloat till 1818, and during all that period the bounty was in existence—£5 to able seamen, £3 or £2 10s. to others. The bounty, therefore, was no new thing in Her Majesty's service; and having been one of the first to recommend the late First Lord of the Admiralty to offer a bounty of £10 for able seamen entering the navy, expressed his approval of the course pursued by the late Government in
 993 994 995
 MR. BAINES  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government, on the expiration of the patent of the Queen's printer for England and Wales, on the 21st January, 1860, to propose the renewal of that patent, so far as it related to the printing of Bibles and Testaments, or any restriction on the free printing of the Holy Scriptures?
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  asked the Secretary of the Admiralty, if it was intended to enforce the re-entry into the service of all naval pensioners, or whether special cases would be considered of persons in receipt of very small pensions, or whom under certain circumstances it might be expedient to relieve from such compulsory service?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  thought the hon. Gentleman had entirely missed the real objection to this Bill. The House now for the first time learned the financial hearing of the question through the Lords' Amendments, which were injurious to the rights of that House as the "guardian" of the public purse. He hoped the House would not compromise its rights by assenting to such a course. The House had remained uninformed of the circumstance of an agreement having been come to, and that under certain circumstances the public Exchequer would be subjected to annual payments of £36,000—that was at the rate of 4½ per cent—for fifty years. In the case of £1,000,000 being raised the annual outlay would be £45,000. In every case where financial burden was imposed on the British public the proper formalities for granting public money should be passed through. He thought it might be well to pass a Resolution embodying the duty of observing that principle in every case. He was glad that the right hon. Baronet had called attention to the question, and he was sure that it was not for the honour and
 960
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  rose to make an explanation. He was in error in stating the Bill had been re-introduced in the present Parliament. It appeared to have been suspended, which, of course, made his case the stronger, as this would be the only opportunity the House would have of fairly considering the arrangement.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he was anxious to call the attention of the House to some considerations connected with this Bill. He thought the hon. Baronet the Member for Evesham (Sir H. Willoughby) had done great public service in pointing attention to the nature of this measure when it was last before the House. He (Sir J. Graham) had since endeavoured to ascertain the facts connected with the introduction of the Bill and the efforts made to pass it, He held in his hand the original prospectus of the Company, issued in August last, in which the substance of the agreement subsequently made by them with the Government was embodied. The Bill containing that agreement was introduced at the commencement of last Session. Private Bills, as the House was aware, were proceeded with either before the public business was entered upon, or at its close; when the rules of the House had been complied with, they passed through very much as a matter of form. The attention of the House was not particularly directed to this Bill, no responsible Member explained the nature of the transaction; the Bill passed, and was carried up to the House of Lords without comment, so far as he was able to ascertain. There it arrived at its last stage immediately before the dissolution, and so drop-
 956 ex officio ex officio ex officio 957
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that this being a Private Bill, there were not more than fifteen copies of it printed, and now that he had got a sight of a copy, he found the case infinitely stronger than it was. ["Order."] Did the House desire to know the facts?
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : I was endeavouring to explain that these  ex officio
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished, before the Speaker left the chair, to receive some further explanation from the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty with respect to the announcement which he had made on Friday last, to the effect that it was the intention of the present Government to extend the bounty to seamen in the navy, which had been granted by the late Government under conditions which would embrace a large portion of those who had previously served in the fleet. He for one had heard that announcement with great surprise at the time when it was made, and he regretted to be obliged to say that subsequent reflection had not removed those feelings of apprehension—he feared, he must add of disapprobation—with which he had from the very first been disposed to regard the policy which the noble Lord had declared it to be the intention of the Government to adopt. He was also sorry to have to state that he did not think his noble Friend had, in making the statement to which he alluded, treated the House with that candour which he ought to have exhibited when the novelty of the proposal which he indicated was taken into consideration. His noble Friend, in short, had refrained from giving to the House those reasons which had induced the Government to make the great change which he announced, and appeared to fight shy of all explanation upon the subject. It appeared that Her Majesty's Ministers had, on Friday last, advised the Sovereign to issue an Order in Council for the purpose of carrying into effect the alteration in question. The noble Lord had, indeed, stated that such was the case; but that circumstance seemed to prove the more strongly that the views of the Government on the point were fixed, that they had duly weighed the step which they were about to take, and must have known the reasons which had led them to its adoption. Why, then, he would ask, had not the noble Lord availed himself of the opportunity which the announcement of the change afforded to lay
 984 985
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had nearly concluded what he wished to say, and he would endeavour not to infringe the rule laid down by the Speaker. The only tiling he had now to remark on was the financial result which would attend this proposition. It would be seen by a reference to the Navy Estimates that the cost of the bounty proposed by the late Government was £31,000 and odd; but what would be the cost of extending the bounty in the manner proposed by the present Government? He, of course, spoke with uncertainty, but he was strongly disposed to believe that it would constitute an additional charge to the country of not less than £100,000, and that money would be positively thrown away, as the proposed bounty was never asked for, and was not required; while it established an embarrassing precedent for future Administrations. He hoped the noble Lord would no longer decline to tell the House explicity and fairly the reasons for which this course had been taken—a course that might be attended with a momentary fleeting popularity, but which was unsound in principle and most dangerous as a precedent. He should also like to know what would be the pecuniary amount of this additional charge, and in what way it was proposed to ask for the money, as it was not included in any of the Estimates on the table?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he could assure his right hon. Friend that he had no hesitation in rising to address the House on this subject; but he was anxious to hear what course the discussion was taking, because it appeared to him that there were two points, and he did not exactly understand on which of them the Amendment was based. In the first place there was a question raised as to whether the mode in which the Bill had passed through that House was a correct and convenient mode, and whether it brought before the notice of the House the effect of the Bill. Now, no one could feel more strongly than he did that that House should be fully aware of all that it was asked to do in the way of originating or enlarging public expenditure. He was a young Member of the House, and was not very familiar with the practice with regard to Private Bills; but he understood that the usual course had been pursued with regard to this Bill, and that an opportunity had been afforded to any Member if he had been watchful to call the attention of the House to it. He regretted that it had failed to attract attention, and he was quite ready to agree to any such Resolution as was proposed by the hon. Member for Evesham, in order to bring such matters before the House more distinctly. The other point that had been raised was as to the expenditure proposed, and the right hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle had stated that he regarded the contract entered into by the late Government as very objectionable, and that the late Government had done something quite unusual in entering into that contract. The matter had been arranged before he (Sir Stafford Northcote) had entered upon his duties at the Treasury, but he believed it was based upon the example of similar contracts made by preceding Governments, and especially upon the contract with the Mediterranean Extension Telegraph Company, from Cagliari to Malta and thence to Corfu, in which case the preceding Government gave a guarantee of 6 per cent for twenty-five years, instead of 4½ per cent for fifty years, as in the present instance. The right hon. Baronet thought the Government had done wrong in interfering to float the line; but the object was one of great importance, and if the only mode of successfully floating the line was by a
 962 ex officio ex officio 963
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  explained that it was made some months before he joined the Treasury.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  asked the Secretary to the Treasury whether the Submarine Telegraph Company have been permitted by her Majesty's Government to lay down any additional wires between England and France, and whether the permission had been given to them without requiring a surrender or modification of the monopoly which had recently been granted to that Company by the French Government, and which gave them an exclusive right to lay clown lines of telegraph between the two countries; and whether there would be any objection to lay on the table of the House the correspondence relating to the subject?
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, it was not the intention of the Government to propose during the present Session any Bill alter-
 1054
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he was quite ready to answer any question, such as was usually put in that House; but he was not aware that it was customary to ask a Member whether he intended to make any statement upon a Bill of which he himself was not in charge. If in the course of the debate on the Bill he should feel it
 1055
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it was not the intention of the Government to proceed with the Bill in question, but it was their intention, regarding, as they did, the whole subject of the Law of Debtor and Creditor, and particularly the Law of Bankruptcy, as now being in a very unsatisfactory state, to give the entire question the most anxious consideration during the recess, with the view to the introduction of a comprehensive measure either in that or the other House of Parliament early in the ensuing Session.
 MR. BAINES  seconded the Motion.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, that as the hon. Member proposed to bring in a Bill to amend the Municipal Corporations Act, he begged to call attention to the fact, that the municipal franchise had to a great extent fallen into the hands of a class of persons who were not able themselves to pay their rates.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that in assenting to the introduction of the Bill he wished it to be understood that he entertained serious doubts whether the alterations proposed ought to be made, and whether there would be sufficient time for the consideration of any material change in the existing law in the course of the present Session. As he understood the matter the hon. Gentleman proposed, first, to alter the settlement which was come to when the Test and Corporation Acts were repealed. When the Bill came to a second reading the hon. Gentleman might, perhaps, be able to show ground for the change he proposed; but he wished to point out that it involved the alteration of a measure which underwent much consideration at the time, and was in the nature of an agreement between different parties in the State.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he would withdraw from the Bill the clauses relating to that subject.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : In that case he would only say that the other part of the Bill would receive the consideration of the Government.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, that this Bill was very similar to the Red Sea Telegraph Bill which they discussed yesterday, and before it was disposed of he wished the Secretary to the Treasury to explain one of the clauses of the Bill, which seemed to him the most extraordinary he had ever heard of in a private Bill. He alluded to the 15th Clause, which was as follows:—
 "It shall be lawful, for the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury and the Company by mutual agreement, from time to time to rescind, modify, or alter any agreement or arrangements now in force under the first recited Act, or which might be at any time hereafter made and entered into." 1041 "That for assisting and facilitating the Atlantic Company's undertaking, the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury might, on behalf of Her Majesty and Her Majesty's Government, from time to time make and enter into such agreement with the Company as they might think proper for appropriating and applying any fixed or varying annual payment or dividend upon all or part of the present or of any further capital of the company as a guarantee of the dividends of the company."
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that in the present inadequate state of Irish representation he would assent to three Members being added.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I beg to move that the Committee on Packet and Telegraphic Contracts do consist of nineteen members; and, in justification of so large a number, I can only say that it was found it would be very difficult to compress this Committee into the number of fifteen. Where various Governments have for a series of years been connected with the formation of these contracts, it appeared impracticable entirely to exclude those who have been connected with office; and if they were to be included, it seemed desirable on the one hand to give them a representation which would be adequate for a full elucidation of the facts, and on the other hand this involved the necessity of a strong representation of the independent Members of the House. Under these circumstances, I hope the House will agree to the number which I have proposed.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, this was a very important inquiry, and he feared it was going to degenerate into a party contest. Nevertheless, he would beg of the House, and especially of the members of whom the Committee was about to be composed, to take into its serious consideration the very
 1078 1079 1080
 MR. M'MAHON  said, there were only two Irish Members on the list of the Committee, while there were three Scotch. The subject was one of the greatest importance to Ireland, and she ought to be fairly represented. He trusted the right hon. Gentleman would consent to omit at least two of the names in the list and to substitute for them the names of two other Irish Members.
 MR. SPEAKER  having put the Question that Mr. Cobden be one member of the Committee,
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield had asked whether, in proposing the Committee, Government meant to question the acts of the late Government as contradistinguished from the acts of former Governments. In reply he must inform the hon. and learned Member that he was not prepared to place any limitation whatever on the functions of the Committee, either as to the past or future, except, of course, that which ought to be taken for granted, that they would act with the strictest regard to the obligations of public faith. With respect to the difficult question of the proportion of Scotch and Irish Members who should sit on the Committee, he could only say that he thought both countries were adequately represented. There were three Scotch and two Irish Members upon it. [An hon. MEMBER: "Only one Irish Member."] His arithmetical faculty seemed to be already at fault, but he believed he was right, and he could assure the House that when the Committee was chosen he had laboured under the impression that there were three Irish Members nominated. It might not perhaps be thought unnatural that such was the case when he said that one of the names which figured on the list of the Committee was that of the noble Lord the Member for Cockermouth (Lord Naas), of
 1081
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that everybody knew that this question had been brought forward in consequence of the Galway contract, which many persons believed to be a purely party transaction. Therefore, to exclude Irish Members, who were chiefly interested, would be unjust. He was competent to give a fair opinion, because he represented an antagonistic port to Galway, and he claimed justice for the whole country when he protested against the systematic exclusion of Irish Members from the Committee. He thought there ought to be fewer Scotch and more Irish Members upon it.
 MR. BRADY  said, that when an Irish subject was to be inquired into Irish Members were excluded because they were interested, and when the subject-matter to be inquired into related to England, they were excluded because they were not interested. He agreed with the hon. Member that this Committee never would have been called for if the Galway guarantee had not been granted. There was a small and contracted feeling in this House re-
 1082
 Mr. BEAMISH  thought, the Government ought to deal fairly by the Irish Members and place an equal number on the Committee. They had a very deep interest in the question, and he hoped the Government would reconsider their decision, and introduce one additional Irish Member at least.
 MR. GEORGE  said, although there ought not to be any such number of Members interested in the contract so as to influence the decision of the Committee, yet it would be highly advantageous if they had Members on it who were fully acquainted with the circumstances of the case, and competent to call witnesses on the various points.
 MR. BRADY  seconded the Motion.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the Motion could only be for the omission of the name, and notice must be given of the substitution of any other. He hoped that his hon. Friend (Mr. Baxter) would not withdraw his name. It was true he might have expressed an opinion with regard to the Galway contract, and if that were a reason for taking off his name they would have to strike off the names of several hon. Members who had already been nominated. If the House were to strike off gentlemen who had expressed such opinions what were they to say as to placing upon the Committee gentlemen who were officially responsible for having entered into the Galway contract? For his own part, he should regard the omission of the hon. Gentleman's name as taking away one of the titles of the Committee to public confidence.
 MR. BAXTER  said, he was not aware
 1083
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he admired the candour with which the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter) had admitted that his mind was made up on the subject about to be investigated. He complained that though every man in the West of Ireland was in favour of Galway as a packet station, there was only one Member on the Committee from that part of the country.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he looked with great suspicion on this proposal for inquiry, for at the first blush it appeared to him as a party move of the most unmistakeable character. He thought the late Government was entitled to credit for having given a packet station to Galway, though, as an individual, he held that they might perhaps have selected a more desirsble port in a part of the country with which he was connected. He submitted that great injustice had been done to Ireland by not placing a fairer proportion of Irish Members on the Committee.
 MR. M'MAHON  hoped that Mr. Baxter would assent to the withdrawal of his name from this Committee, seeing that the hon. Member would go into the Committee with his mind made up.
 MR. P. O'BRIEN  thought it very unfair that a Gentleman should be put upon this Committee who had told them that his mind was made up with regard to the question of subsidizing these companies.
 MR. WILSON  said, that the hon. Member for Montrose advocated a distinct principle, and that was whether the postal service of the country could not be carried on without subsidies at all; and therefore he thought that he would be a very valuable member of the Committee to cross-examine the witnesses with a view to illustrate the principle he advocated. The Committee was not confined to the Galway packet contract, but extended to the general ocean packet service.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, one charge brought against the late Government was that when in office they employed their power to sub-
 1084
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that when he saw the first list of names it occurred to him that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had made an unfortunate selection. One of the most unsatisfactory things in the business of that House was that so small a result followed from the appointment of a Committee. So strong had been his feeling on this subject that he had on every possible occasion abstained from serving on Committees as much as he could from the belief that his labour and time would be almost thrown away. When the Committee was first nominated he felt that it would not give satisfaction to the House, because it contained too many members who were now in office, or who had been in office under the late Government, and they would both go into the Committee Room with a disposition to justify everything that had been done. The officials of the present Government were equally well disposed to support everything which had been done by their predecessors, and the few Members on the Committee who might be called independent would find themselves overborne by the votes of those who were concerned in the very things the Committee had to inquire into. For these reasons he had intended to object to the nomination which the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had proposed. Indeed, he believed that right hon. Gentleman had found out that the Committee, as he had originally composed it, would not be agreed to, and he had therefore added four more names, making in all nineteen members; and by so doing he had made the Committee too large and cumbersome; there would be twice as many questions asked than necessary for the purposes of the inquiry, the whole thing would fall into confusion and would turn out as resultless
 1085 1086
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he he should certainly urge the House to retain the name of the hon. Member for Montrose upon the Committee, and he did so for this reason—this Committee was to be appointed for the wise object of looking into the whole subject of the packet contracts, which was one that required the full attention of those hon. Members who might be selected; and in the interest of the late Government, whose conduct had been attacked, he should demand that the hon. Member for Montrose should be placed on the Committee. This inquiry ought not to be skin-deep, but fully and properly gone into, and he believed the more the subject was inquired into, the more it would redound to the credit and not discredit of the late Government. The subject was one which could not properly be discussed in that House, but should be referred to a Select Committee; and if it were discussed without the assistance of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose, it might be said that the Committee had not been appointed fairly, nor the subject properly gone into. This Committee would have to go into the whole question as to what were the principles upon which the packet contracts were founded, and they would have to state whether the Galway, Dovor, and other contracts were right or wrong, He quite agreed that the Committee would be best if it were composed entirely of non-official Members; but if, on the other hand, the whole truth was to he got out, they must have a certain number of gentlemen who could bring out the points of the case; and, therefore, it would be desirable that they should have two or three Members on the Committee who were acquainted with official proceedings. He felt satisfied with the appearance of this Committee as it now stood, and thought that a fair inquiry would be instituted,
 1087
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  wished to point out that these contracts had been going on in various ports and towns of England. Up to the present moment not one shilling had been given to Ireland, and until it was proposed that Ireland should benefit by one of these contracts no inquiry had been demanded. As soon, however, as an attempt had been made to assist private energy in Ireland, the whole power and weight of English Members were brought to bear against them. It might be prudent that neither the Members for Galway, Limerick, nor Liverpool should serve, on the ground of private interest, but the same objection could not apply to the whole commercial community of Ireland. Why should not a Member for Belfast and Dublin serve on the Committee? It was a matter peculiarly interesting to Ireland, but the constitution of the Committee was not such as to give satisfaction to the people of Ireland.
 MR. SCULLY  seconded the Motion, declaring that the Committee was not at all fairly constituted. There were only two Irish Members, for the noble Lord the Member for Cockermouth (Lord Naas), although an Irishman, was an English Member. As well might the present Member for Marylebone (Lord Fermoy) be called an Irish Member, but he was nothing of the kind. Ireland was not fairly treated, either in this Committee or in the Cabinet, where there was not a single Irishman. The noble Lord at the head of the Government, although bearing an Irish title, was no more an Irishman than the Marquess of Douro was a Portuguese. He would reserve for another occasion remarks on the constitution of the
 1088
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that he, like every Member in the House, felt great respect for the right hon. Gentleman whose name was now proposed, but, if the Report of the Committee was not to be a nullity, the House should endeavour to get a non-official and independent Committee. The Government were the assailants in this matter, and partly with a political object; and, however fair Mr. Wilson might be, there were fairer men, as that right hon. Gentleman had a strong political and party bias. Let some Independent Member be appointed who would not regard the interests of faction on either side, but only the interests of the empire.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  thought it of the utmost importance that this Committee should be fairly and impartially constituted. It was thought desirable to have on the Committee one or two Members connected with the late and present Governments, who might be able to direct attention to what those Governments might bring before the Committee. Such Members, however, should be put, not on the Committee, but in the witness-box, and then they could bring before the Committee all the points they might think it desirable to direct attention to. He would suggest whether it would not be fair that the name of one of the Government Members should be withdrawn, and some Independent Member appointed instead.
 LORD FERMOY  said, he would not obtrude himself on the House; but in consequence of the observation made on his vote
 1089
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  agreed with the noble Lord that if there was a sentiment of dissatisfaction on the part of the Irish Members in respect to the constitution of the Committee it would be more convenient to raise that point by a separate Motion rather than upon the question being put on particular names. It had been suggested that Mr. Wilson's or Mr. Laing's name should be omitted; but he thought it necessary to point out that the House had now appointed fourteen members out of nineteen, and among the fourteen were four official gentlemen connected with the late Government. Under these circumstances, it was not an unfair or immoderate proposition that two gentlemen in office connected with the present Government should be put upon the Committee. It was his business to come into some sort of relation with the Committee, and this would be effected through the Secretary of the Treasury (Mr. Laing), who belonged to the same Department as himself, and with whom he was in constant communication with respect to all matters of the Department. The Vice-President
 1090
 MR. HORSFALL  quite concurred that it was undesirable the Members for Liverpool or for Galway should be on the Committee, although if placed on it himself he should have endeavoured to do his duty; and he might observe that if he had any bias in the matter it was in favour of Ireland. He was anxious to bear his testimony to the great importance of the right hon. Gentleman the Vice-President of the Board of Trade (Mr. Wilson) being on the Committee, as that right hon. Gentleman was better acquainted with matters of this kind than any other Gentleman, and he hoped therefore his name would be retained.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  also supported the retention of the right hon. Gentleman, and suggested that, if hon. Members were objected to in consequence of having belonged to one Government or the other, some hon. Member would move the omission of his name, which had been placed on the Committee without his knowledge.
 MR. MAGUIRE  hoped the further consideration of the subject would be adjourned till to-morrow. The reason why the last Motion was not opposed by a vote was that he and some of his friends hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer might reconsider the question, and be ready to agree to some improvement of the Committee to-morrow.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  did not see, considering the progress they had made in appointing the Committee, in what way they could improve it in the sense understood by the hon. Gentleman. He thought they ought to proceed with the nomination. The next name was that of the Secretary to the Treasury, and after him came an Irish gentleman, to whom there could hardly be any objection.
 MR. SCULLY  did not see any such difficulty in the way of reconsidering the matter as the Chancellor of the Exchequer
 1091
 MR. VANCE  said, the Committee included the representatives of two of the great commercial cities of England, but the commercial cities of Ireland had been entirely overlooked. There were only two Irish Members on the Committee, and neither of them was the representative of a great port, or of a largo manufacturing town. There were, however, upon the Committee representatives of London and Manchester. He did not object to the hon. Member for Manchester, but the interests of that city were so closely connected with those of Liverpool, that it was almost the same thing as placing one of the Members for Liverpool on the Committee. He believed that a Committee, constituted as this was proposed to be, would be very unsatisfactory to the people of Ireland, and that if their report condemned the Gal way contract it would be regarded with the utmost contempt.
 MR. BUTT  said, that if the Chancellor of the Exchequer would consent to increase the Committee from nineteen to twenty-one members, he (Mr. Butt) would suggest that one of the Members for the city of Dublin and one of the Members for Tipperary be added to the Committee. If the proposed Committee agreed to a Report adverse to the Galway contract, the feeling in Ireland would be that the interests of that country had not been fairly represented.
 MR. MAGUIRE  observed that he would be satisfied if the Chancellor of the Ex-
 1092
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the most convenient course would be that hon. Gentlemen who complain that there was an insufficient representation of Irish Members on the Committee should give notice of a Motion on the subject. He would then have time to reflect upon the general bearing of the proposition, and he could afterwards inform the House of the decision of the Government.
 MR. MONSELL  expressed his regret that Ireland was not more fairly represented upon this Committee. There could be no doubt that the Galway contract would be the first subject of its inquiry, and he was desirous that the subject should be fairly and impartially investigated. If the decision of the Committee should be unfavourable to the Galway contract it would undoubtedly be the opinion of the Irish people that the question had not been determined by a fair tribunal. Under these circumstances he thought the request of the hon. Member for Dungarvan was not unreasonable, and he moved the adjournment of the debate.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he could not agree with those hon. Gentlemen who contended that the Committee did not contain a fair and impartial selection of Members to try the particular question of the Galway contract, if that were the only subject to be investigated; but while they pointed out that there were only two or three Irish Members upon the Committee, they seemed to overlook the fact that the Committee would include three or four Members of the late Government, by whom the contract was made, and who were therefore as much interested in maintaining the propriety of the arrangement they had concluded as any Irish Member could be. He saw no reason either for altering the constitution of the Committee or adjourning the debate; but even if any hon. Member wished on a subsequent day to propose an addition to the Committee, an adjournment of the debate was not necessary for that purpose. He hoped, therefore,
 1093
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he had supported the Government in the nomination of this Committee, and he need, therefore, scarcely Bay that he was not disposed to put them to any unnecessary trouble; but he thought the observations of the noble Lord were not altogether just. The noble Lord had said that the Committee comprised the names of some three or four Members of the late Administration who were entirely committed to the Galway contract and who would take care that that subject was properly dealt with. It must be remembered, however, that those Members of the late Government who were upon the Committee had a special duty to perform. They had to take care that the question was fairly placed before the Committee—that there was no want of information—and that the Committee should be acquainted not only with the facts, but with the opinions which had induced the late Government to sanction the arrangement. Now what was required was a Committee which would investigate this and similar transactions in such a manner as to satisfy the country that the inquiry had been conducted by impartial persons. The argument of the noble Lord therefore amounted to nothing, unless they were satisfied that there were on the Committee a certain number of individuals who could not be biased, or supposed to be biased, by any predilections whatever, cither with reference to the late Administration, or any foregone conclusion as to this particular scheme, but who had no other object than to arrive at an impartial and just conclusion upon the merits. He must say he thought it would have been more satisfactory if there had been a stronger representation of Irish Members upon the Committee. He altogether acquitted the Government of having been actuated by any but the most fair and impartial intentions in the constitution of the Committee; for he knew from experience how difficult it was to form a Committee, especially upon a subject of this kind, which could give entire satisfaction. After the discussion which had taken place, however, he thought it was impossible to deny that there was not a satisfactory representation of Irish interests upon the Committee. He was unwilling to see the names of any member of Committee superseded by others merely on the ground that they were Irish Members, and he had
 1094
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman nearly coincided with what he had himself suggested and been taken to task for mentioning. He had said it would be open to any Gentleman on a future occasion to propose an increase to the Committee; and the quarrel with him was not that he would not assent at the moment to such an addition to its numbers, but that he would not accede to the precise proposal and the particular names which had been put before him. In asking for time he had conveyed the impression that he was acting precipitately. To be candid with the House he would tell them fairly where the difficulty originated. It originated in the large official representation of the late Government on the Committee. If, therefore, the right hon. Gentleman opposite, with his strong sense of the necessity of adding to the Irish clement, would reduce the number of Members of the late Government from four to two, then there would be two vacancies, which the Government would not have the slightest objection to fill an with Irish Members.
 MR. BUTT  had not asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer to accede to any two particular names. He had given notice of his intention, in which he meant to persevere, to move on Thursday that the members of the Committee be increased to twenty-one.
 MR. MALINS  hoped that the hon. Gentleman would not go on with the Bill at that hour, and suggested that it should be postponed for a week.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, the Bill was introduced last year and read a second time, and was reintroduced this Session at the earliest possible period. He should take the sense of the House upon the Motion.
 MR. MALINS  said, that it was perfectly true that the House had last Parliament agreed to the second reading of the Bill; but it was upon the understanding that Government would add clauses providing compensation, as had been done on the passing of the Probate and Divorce Act, for the proctors practising in the Court. [ A laugh.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  thought that the House and the country, which were paying £69,000 a year to the proctors, had had enough of compensation. He also thought that the gentlemen who were receiving that sum had enough of compensation. When the Divorce and Probate Bills were before the House, he yielded to the claims for compensation; but it was distinctly stated that the Admiralty Court should likewise be thrown open, and that there should be no further demands for compensation. The present Bill was only the complement of the Divorce and Probate Acts; it dealt with an old and familiar subject, and he trusted, therefore, that the House would not allow it to be further delayed, especially for the purpose of affording the proctors an opportunity of getting up petitions for compensation.
 MR. MALINS  reminded the Committee
 1096
 MR. MOWBRAY : Although the Attorney General had observed that the House had had enough of compensation, he had understated the amount which the country had to pay. The amount was in reality not £69,000, but between £120,000 and £130,000 a year. His hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Malins) appeared to think that an arrangement had been made by which the country was to recoup this sum; but so far from that having been the case £56,000 for stamps was all that had yet been received against the £120,000 a year. If compensation clauses were brought up he would suggest that they should be based upon the principle that compensation should be limited to the difference between the income upon which the proctors had received compensation, and the amount which they had returned to the income tax.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  remarked that the compensation clauses in the Divorce and Probate Acts were forced upon the Government by the other side, and in a particular manner by the hon. Member for Durham (Mr. Mowbray).
 MR. MOWBRAY  stated that the clauses in question were supported by Gentlemen on both sides of the House; indeed, the Member to whom the proctors intrusted their petition was the noble Lord the Member for the City of London.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said: Sir, I have ventured to give notice that I shall move as an Amendment that this Bill be read a second time on this day three months; and I hope the House will allow me to explain, in as few words as possible, my reasons for so doing. The House will recollect that when this Bill was last under consideration, and just before the right hon. Baronet the Member for Canterbury moved the second reading of his Bill, a question was put to the Attorney General for Ireland, as to whether the Government would introduce a measure for an alteration of the oath taken by the Roman Catholic Members of this House, and by various officers of State being Roman Catholics, which is prescribed by what is termed the Relief Act of 1829—that great settlement by which members of the Roman Catholic Church, or rather persons who profess the Roman Catholic religion, were admitted to seats in the Legislature. The Attorney General for Ireland then stated, on the part of the Government, that they would, during the recess, consider this question. Now, the terms of that oath comprehend all the principles of the Relief Act. They comprehend not only the terms upon which Roman Catholics should be admitted to the Legislature and to high offices of State, but provide that nothing shall be done by the Roman Catholics to the detriment of the Established Church, or to the detriment of the Protestant Government of the United Kingdom as established under the Act of Settlement. Now, it appears to me to be somewhat strange that, when the Government had decided that they would take the period of the recess to consider whether any modifications should be introduced into this most important part of this national compact, for it is a national compact, they should have permitted and even encouraged an independent Member of this House to persevere with a Bill which assails a vital element in that Settlement. I know that a belief has prevailed, that this is merely a small concession to the spirit of liberalism in which this country has been proceeding for some years;
 1098 1099 "But, Sir, with respect to all these offices, to corporate offices, to offices in the Courts of Justice, to military appointments, aye, to the highest civil offices, we have in my opinion decided the question
 1100 1101 1102 1103 L'avenir de l'Angleterre: "But it is in England, above all, that the fact is most fully demonstrated that without political liberty they remain powerless. Political liberty has been obtained, and everything has become powerless against them. The Catholics owe everything to liberty; nothing to temporal authority. Neither Philip the II. nor James the II. could prevent their defeat." 1104
 SIR BROOK BRIDGES , in seconding the Amendment, said he was astonished at the light and airy—he might almost say the flippant manner in which the right hon. Gentleman (Sir W. Somerville) introduced this Bill, which was one of the most important Bills that could be brought before the House. He was astonished to hear the right hon. Gentleman say that it was by the mere inadvertence of some of the greatest men that England ever produced, that a provision whose express object was to except particular persons from particular offices under the operation of the Act of 1829 was inserted in that Act. The Secretary of State for the Home Department wished the House to suppose that that provision was inserted simply because Sir Robert Peel did not happen to know that the Chancellor of Ireland had no Church patronage. But the distribution of Church patronage was one of the most insignificant of the duties that devolved upon the Chancellor of Ireland. He it was who had to advise the delegated governor of that country in all important matters. It was impossible therefore to suppose that the introduction of these exceptions was an inadvertence. In seconding the Amendment he was actuated by no unworthy motives against his Roman Catholic fellow subjects. He honestly believed that the liberties of this country mainly depended upon Pro-
 1105
 MR. CARDWELL : My hon. Friend the Member for Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) has appealed to Her Majesty's Government not to allow an independent Member of this House to tamper with those principles upon which, in his words, the Protestant Constitution of this country rests. I, on the other hand, am happy in being able to support a measure brought forward by an independent Member of this House, than whom none is more worthy to be the instrument in promoting what I believe to be a just and righteous measure. I listened with pleasure to the high terms in which my hon. Friend spoke of the author of the Catholic Relief Act, and in the argument, short only as it need be, that I shall venture to address to the House I shall defend the second reading of this Bill upon the principles announced by the author of the Relief Act; and I shall endeavour to show that consistently with the statements then made there is no reason why this present exception from the comprehensive provisions of that Act ought any longer to remain upon the pages of the statute-book. The principle of that Act, laid down by the author of it at the time and accepted by Parliament, was the principle of equality of civil and religious privilege; and the exceptions which were included in the Act were exceptions justified only, and believed to be justified, by the special circumstances existing at that time. What now remains for us to consider on the second reading of this Bill is whether it is possible to defend by sound argument, based on the special circumstances of the office, the exception with regard to the Lord Chancellor of Ireland. The principles of that exception were two. It was stated that the reason why the Lord Chancellor of England and the Lord Chancellor of Ireland were ex-
 1106 1107 "The Chancellor's ecclesiastical jurisdiction, as representing the Queen, consists in issuing Commissions of Delegates under the 28th  Geo. 1108 "The only other office of the Chancellor in relation to Ecclesiastical Courts is to sign warrants for the issue of writs ' de contumace capiendo, Geo. mandamus 1109
 MR. WHITESIDE : Sir, I heard the notice given of this measure by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Canterbury (Sir W. Somerville) with surprise and regret. In the whole course of my life, since the Catholic Emancipation Act was passed, I have never heard an observation made upon the subject, and no Motion has ever been submitted to the House since 1829 to redress what is described as a momentous grievance. But now, when all irritating topics have been disposed of, when Reform has gone to sleep, when the landlord and tenant question is shelved, and a criminal code for Ireland extinguished, it was, I suppose, thought necessary by hon. Gentlemen opposite to do something, and therefore a Motion was made to repeal two lines of a fundamental clause of a fundamental measure. I object to a measure such as the great Act for the Emancipation of the Roman Catholics being dealt with in this fashion. I say it is inconvenient and mischievous, and that it is impossible to set a worse precedent than for a Government to allow a right hon. Gentleman, one of their supporters, so to deal with this question. If the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Canterbury bad made a proposal similar to that which is involved in his Bill with reference to a mere equity Judge, such as the Master of the Rolls, I could understand such a proceeding. Such, however, is not the case. Bat if the mode and time at which the Bill is proposed arc inconvenient, the arguments by which it was supported are eminently inconclusive, and then the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland and the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department come to the rescue and assert, what I undertake to disprove, that that portion of the clause which is now in question was framed by Sir Robert Peel inadvertently, and under the false impression that there was some ecclesiastical patronage attached to the office of Lord Chancellor of Ireland; that alone being, as is contended, the reason of the exception which is made in the Act of emancipation, which they say ought now to be obviated. Now, when such a
 1110 1111 1112 pro tempore 1113 1114
 MR. CARDWELL : I believe that I proceeded to show that by the terms of the Roman Catholic Relief Act the Lord Chancellor, being a Roman Catholic, would be disqualified from voting.
 MR. WHITE SIDE : But the Home Secretary said the Bill, in his opinion, was to be defended upon the distinct ground that there was no ecclesiastical patronage vested in the office of the Chancellor, and when it is proved that there is, the Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland falls back upon the 17th Section, and says if the Chancellor ventures to appoint to these livings he may be indicted. So that you propose to appoint a man to a certain office to which certain duties are incident, and if he performs those duties he is to be indicted! As to cases of presentations in the hands of lunatics, the law is quite plain. Neither the lunatic nor his committee can present; but the Lord Chancellor, by virtue of the general authority delegated to him by the Crown, presents to the living, whatever its value. Altogether, I think the right hon. Member for the University (Mr. Gladstone) will startle his constituents if he votes for this Bill. Sir Robert Peel understood this question thoroughly, and when he excluded Roman Catholics from holding the Chancellorship it was not done invidiously. In his paper, published by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Card-well) he says he wishes to make his measure as comprehensive as possible. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone), too is a Churchman. Can he advocate a Bill by which the most sacred interests of the Church may either be sacrificed or betrayed? ["No!"] Hear the argument first and then answer it if you can. When subjects of this delicate nature and dealing with such important interests are brought forward in this rash way, the arguments must be heard fully. Besides having a delegated authority over lunatics and minors, besides having this patronage in the City of Dublin, the Lord Chancellor exercises certain powers when questions of doctrine arise. It is said that he only acts ministerially in selecting the Judges who are to
 1115 ex officio, 1116
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the right hon. and learned Gentleman has made such distinct and repeated appeals to me, in the character of representative of the University of Oxford, that I hope the House will indulge me while I endeavour to afford him the information he asks at my hands. The right hon. Gentleman desires to know whether I intend to vote for the second reading of this Bill. I have to state that I do intend to vote for it and, further, that I shall do so with as clear a conscience as I have ever before given a vote in Parliament. The right hon. Gentleman, to whom I always listen with the utmost pleasure, has appeared before us to-night in a somewhat novel character—in the character of the defender, and almost as the disciple, of Sir Robert Peel, and seems to be alarmed lest some Members of this House should now be such traitors to his memory as to support a measure so destructive of the constitution as that before the House. I
 1117 quasi ex officio 1118 Geo. 1119
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, after a speech of so much importance as that which we have just heard—which does not, I think, do justice to the argument of my right hon. and learned Friend—the House would be unwilling to break up without hearing some answer to a speech more remarkable for eloquence than for strong argument against the objections to the Bill. My right hon. Friend states that certain ecclesiastical patronage belongs to the Lord Chancellor of Ireland. If I understood the purport of my right hon. and learned Friend's argument—and a more able one I never heard—that argument has been entirely passed over by the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down. It was that the Lord Chancellor of Ireland was an office, not of merely a civil character, which every professional man might justly look to possess if he had sufficient knowledge, ability, and learning, but that Sir Robert Peel had excluded certain offices as exceptions to the rights conferred upon the Roman Catholics as offices connected with the Crown, and offices belonging to the delegates of the Crown. My right hon. and learned Friend quoted a Cabinet paper and an Act of Parliament. My right
 1120 pro tanto 1121 1122
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I hope the House will come to a decision upon the Bill this evening. The subject has been sufficiently discussed to enable every Member to make up his mind, and if we are to judge from what has passed in the debate, there are some Gentlemen whose minds have been made up long ago. I cannot see how Members can be pressed to come to an abrupt dissolution upon that which I may perhaps, without disrespect, call the Holy Alliance, which not long ago existed between them. Members on the other side of the House seem to have awoke as from a dream to their former sentiments; and notwithstanding the appearances which presented themselves when they sat on this side of the House of greater liberality on their part on subjects of the kind we have been discussing this evening than had previously distinguished their career, it seems now that their sentiments belonged only to the occasion. It now appears that they have reverted to the sentiments they previously expressed. Well, Sir, I cannot concur with them in the objections which they have made to the Bill. Though the Bill may repeal a part of the letter of the Emancipation Act, it is in strict conformity with the spirit in which that Act was founded. The spirit of that arrangement was, that the Catholic should be admitted to every civil and political function which was not connected with any ecclesiastical authority. I think it is proved that the office of Lord Chancellor of Ireland is a purely civil, political, and judicial office. He may occasionally have the disposal of a few small livings in Dublin; but it is dealing lightly with this great subject to protend that he possesses ecclesiastical patronage, and that on that account an Irish barrister ought to be deprived of the right of fairly and legitimately arriving at that distinguished position. I hope the House will not be led away by those unsound attempts at argument on the part of the right hon. and learned Gentleman op-
 1123
 MR. DISRAELI : Whatever may be our decision, the question before us is one of high importance; and I must say I am surprised at the tone of the noble Lord. It is difficult to imagine any subject more deserving of calm, grave, and deliberate discussion. The noble Lord rose to speak upon the question of adjournment, but he made a speech upon the Bill; yet I must say of the observations of the noble Lord that for the information he has given us, and the general knowledge he has evinced upon the subject, it would have been better if the noble Lord had confined his observations to the question of adjournment. I cannot say that the question is to me as clear as it appears to be to the noble Lord. On the contrary, it is one evidently of some difficulty and very great doubt as to the nature of the functions which the Lord Chancellor of Ireland has to fulfil. No two Gentlemen who have addressed us have agreed upon that point. My right hon. and learned Friend laid down certain propositions, but the Chancellor of the Exchequer who replied to him, did not agree either in arguments or facts. This is
 1124 1125 1126
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman has made a direct appeal to the Members of Her Majesty's Government to state what opinion they would express on a certain course he has proposed, and I have risen simply to give an answer to that appeal. I will give that answer in the fewest number of words; but before I give the answer, I think it right to take notice of one or two points which were touched on by the right hon. Member for Dublin University (Mr. Whiteside). That right hon. Gentleman commented upon a remark of mine made in a previous debate. I ventured on a previous occasion to say, that in my opinion Sir Robert Peel, in disqualifying Roman Catholics from the office of Irish Chancellor, had acted inadvertently. That expression has been much criticised during to-night's debate, and I will now repeat, after consideration, and after hearing the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman, what I believe to be the real fact with regard to the origin of the enactment we are now considering. It is clear that Sir Hubert Peel introduced into his measure the Irish Chancellor, because he found that office coupled with the English Chancellor in previous Bills brought in by the professed advocates of the Roman Catholic claims. My conviction is, looking to the expressions he used during the debates, that he was under the impression that the Irish Chancellor had ecclesiastical patronage. I draw that inference from words used by Sir Robert Peel in Committee, and my firm belief is that in introducing the measure, and recommending it to the House, both he and the House of Commons were under the impression that the Irish Chancellor did possess some consider-able ecclesiastical patronage. And now I repeat my assertion, that the Irish Chancellor cannot in strictness be said to have any ecclesiastical patronage, because he is merely one person in conjunction with several others in the disposal of the appointments. With respect to any ecclesiastical patronage the Irish Chancellor might hold, his exercise of it is completely guarded by
 1127
 MR. BANKS STANHOPE  opposed the Billon one great and distinct principle. This question had been settled in 1829, and he opposed any interference with that settlement. That was a principle which no Select Committee could affect, and therefore he would oppose the appointment of any Committee.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE , in reply, complained of the imputations which had been cast upon his motives by the Mover of the Amendment and by the right hon. Gentleman the late Attorney General for Ireland. His only motive was to do an act of justice. The question had been asked, why the Government allowed him to bring forward such a Bill? His reply was that he was an independent member, and though he supported the Government he would not ask their consent to any measure that he brought forward. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Whiteside) sneered at his motives, and spoke of this measure having been brought forward, after some other leading measures had
 1128
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he had not made any such imputation. He had stated that when certain great national measures were disposed of then this measure was introduced.
 MR. WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said, the right hon. Gentleman did not speak in the quiet way he now did, but in a very excited and sneering manner, and talked of the "indecent measure" which he had introduced. He thought that his general bearing in that House did not entitle the right hon. Gentleman to make use of such language towards him. He would accept the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli), and when the Bill had been read a second time remit it to a Select Committee.
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  thought the question of adjournment had been lost sight of, and hoped the hon. Gentleman who moved it would insist on his Motion being put. He would be no party to the Lord Chancellor of Ireland being a Roman Catholic till he was convinced that they were not undoing what had been done in 1829.
 COLONEL DICKSON  was anxious to meet the wish of the House that the question should be calmly considered; but as the discussion of the general question had been resumed for some time he would withdraw the Motion of adjournment.
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  said, he would, in that case, move the adjournment again, if nobody else did.
 MR. SPEAKER  was then about to put the Question "That the Debate be now adjourned;" when
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  rose and attempted to address the House: but was met with such continuous cries for a division, that the noble Lord sat down.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  then moved "That the House do now adjourn."
 GENERAL PEEL  said, that he had made no change whatever in regard to admission into the Army except with the advice of the Council on Education. It was on the advice of that Council that the rule was made with regard to allowing rejected candidates to be examined again.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBET  said, he hoped his hon. Friend the Member for Wigtonshire (Sir Andrew Agnew) would not press the Motion of which he had given notice relative to saluting religious processions. He made this appeal with the more confidence because with reference to the salutes at Malta, of which complaint had been made, and in regard to which some acrimonious debates had taken place in that House, a very great change had been made during the present year, which it was hoped would remove objections. At the same time a feeling of irritation prevailed in the Ionian Islands, and there had been some small indications of irritable feeling between the population of Malta and the garrison. He should be sorry to see such a feeling augmented, and fresh fuel added to it by anything that might be said in that House. Since the arrangement made between Lord Hill and Lord Derby (when the noble Lord was Secretary for the Colonies), an alteration had been made. The late Secretary of State for the Colonies submitted a despatch to the hon. and gallant Gentleman (General Peel), which was approved by him, directing the troops not to turn out or take part in any religious ceremonies. Orders were accordingly sent out that the troops were to pay the usual marks of respect to any persons engaged in a procession of a religious character, but they were not to turn out the guard to them or salute them. At present the Archbishop of Malta was saluted in his capacity as a civil dignitary of the island, and if he were taking part in any religious procession no distinction was made in consequence of his being there. He trusted that under the circumstances his hon. Friend would not press his Motion.
 SIR ANDREW ANGNEW  said, that after the appeal made to him by the right
 1057
 MR. CLIFFORD  rose for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to a view of this subject which had not yet engaged the public notice, but in which great injustice was often wrought by competitive examination. Three candidates would be put to compete for the same office, and the first of the three would gain his thousand marks, whilst the second and third might have respectively 900 and 800 marks, and therefore be unsuccessful. The following day three other candidates would be put to compete, and the successful candidate would have but 700 marks, and yet be successful; so that the second and third of the former day appeared as plucked men, whilst the inferior man of the second day was successful.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  thought it very hard that when a temporary clerk was appointed to the permanent establishment the time which he had served as a temporary clerk should not be counted to him.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, although the Bill extended to Ireland not a single Irish Member was put on the list first suggested by the hon. Gentleman; and in his amended list there were only two Irish Members. This objection applied not only to this Committee but to all Committees, the Irish Members not being fairly represented. On the Committee relating to Government contracts with Steam-packet Companies Ireland was not fairly represented, much as she was interested in that question.
 COLONEL DUNNE  proposed to substitute the name of Lord NAAS.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  begged to assure the House that in its present shape the Bill did not extend to Ireland, and did not affect any school in that country in the slightest degree.
 COLONEL DUNNE  was quite ready to withdraw his Motion if four Irish Members were added.
 COLONEL DUNNE : Four.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE : This was far from being an old or an effete law. It was passed at the end of the last century, and had been recognized as an Act passed in the course of the present reign. This proceeding was, as the hon. Member for Birmingham said, introducing free trade into the Church of England, and the House
 1047
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, that the general question before the House was much more important than the personal merits or demerits of this gentleman, with which the House had nothing to do. The real question was, were they prepared to make an exception to a general law? The right hon. Gentleman the Member for North Wilts (Mr. S. Estcourt) had said that the question was not fairly raised by this Bill. But it was raised; for if the existing law was a good law, some reason ought to be shown for departing from it.
 LORD ELCHO : In reply to the appeal made to me by my noble Friend the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, I wish to state that though I cannot admit as a general proposition that the Members of this House, or this House itself, is to be debarred from expressing an opinion on matters of this nature, I shall not press the Motion that stands in my name for Thursday next. I shall, therefore, on that day, ask for leave to withdraw it. But I reserve to myself the right, if it appears to me desirable to exercise it, of explaining in a few words what the motive was which induced me to place that notice on the paper.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, Mr. Berington's Knapsacks had been tried at Chobham in 1855, and subsequently at Aldershot, and a Board of General Officers had reported that in their opinion the disadvantages attaching to them were greater than their advantages. Mr. Berington afterwards made some alterations in his plans to obviate those objections; but still the Knapsacks were objected to by the Inspector General of the Medical Department on the ground of the pressure upon the chest occasioned by the straps by which they were secured. He (Mr. S. Herbert) believed that the matter was not one to be decided by a Board of General Officers, but by the men themselves, and that it would be desirable to issue a large number of the Knapsacks on trial, leaving the men themselves to say which they preferred.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, the Commissioners had sent in their Report, and the Government was anxious to have an opportunity of deciding to what extent they could adopt their recommendations. He hoped to be able to state in a few days what decision had been come to on the question.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) seemed to think that Mr. Greive had been censured by his Episcopal superior in Scotland. Now that was not the case. The whole complaint against him was that he declined to pronounce an opinion in a case in which only one side had been heard. Although there was no doubt that the Bishop in question did write the letter of censure, it was also true that the same Bishop had afterwards written a letter in which he spoke of Mr. Greive in the highest possible terms. The right hon. Gentleman who last spoke asked the House to reject this private Bill on the ground that it infringed what he regarded as a sound general principle. The subject was one in which, in his (Lord J. Manners') opinion, deserved mature consideration; but the question now to be determined was whether, on statements made on one side and rebutted on the other, they would refuse to an individual who had already incurred great expense in passing this Bill through the House of Lords, the same licence and liberty which Parliament had in numerous instances accorded to persons in analogous circumstances. He thought that it would be in the highest degree unfair, upon mere  ex parte
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  denied that the arrangements made with regard to this telegraph were framed, as the right hon. Baronet alleged, in a loose manner. From his own personal knowledge he could state that they formed the subject of more than one anxious deliberation on the part of the Cabinet, and he believed that they were conducive to the public interest.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL :—Sir, Her Majesty's Government have received intelligence on the subject referred to by the right hon. Gentleman. At two o'clock this day I was informed by the Ambassador of the Emperor of the French that he had received a telegram, informing him that peace between the two Emperors was signed yesterday. Since my interview with the French Ambassador I have received a telegram from Lord Cowley, and I think I cannot better satisfy the anxiety of the House than by reading the statement contained in that document:—
 1052 "Paris, Tuesday, 2 p. m. "The following telegram has been received:— "'Valleggio, Juillet 11, 1859. " The Emperor to the Empress. "'PEACE is signed between the Emperor of Austria and me. "The bases of the Peace are:— "'Italian Confederation under the honorary Presidency of the Pope. "'The Emperor of Austria cedes his rights to Lombardy to the Emperor of the French, who transfers them to the King of Sardinia. "'The Emperor of Austria preserves Venice, but she will form an integral part of the Italian Confederation. "'General amnesty.' "
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the acceptance of the Sovereignty of the Feejee Islands had been very much impressed on the Government, both by persons who took an interest in the growth of cotton, and also by persons interested in Missionary labours in those islands. The matter, however, was under the consideration of the Government.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  inclined to the opinion that the Bill, as at present worded, would apply only to England, because the Church of England was mentioned. Although the phrase was not a legal one, it was clear that the Church of England was not the Church of Ireland.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  in moving that it be an instruction to the Printing Committee that on every Return ordered to be printed by this House, in addition to the date of the order for printing, there be also printed the date at which such Return was actually sent to press, said his object was to fix the responsibility of the great delays which occasionally took place in the delivery of Returns. For instance, an important mercantile Return ordered on the Motion of the Vice President of the Board of Trade on the 2nd of August, 1858, had only been presented on the 2nd of July last.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he would withdraw the Motion for the present, and communicate with the right hon. Gentleman on the subject.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE , in with- drawing the Motion said, the discussion would have the good effect of making it known to the public that those who put their sons in the position of temporary clerks must never expect to have them transferred to the permanent establishments.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  rose to move—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to instruct the Civil Service Examiners that all persons who entered any service or profession prior to the 21st day of May, 1855, to which service or profession the present system of examinations is applicable, shall be considered eligible for promotion without being subjected to any examination." 1063 attaché, attachés 1064 "Explain fully the meaning of the following geographical terms:—'Peninsula,' 'promontory,' 'estuary,' 'delta,' 'plateau,' 'watershed,' and give three instances of each. Describe the position of the following places:—St. Helena, St. Albans, Corfu, Toronto, Salisbury, Copenhagen, Agra, Vienna, Inverary, Singapore, Stirling, Cairo, Nillala, Meerut, Hastings, Owhyhee. Write a geographical description of any one country of Ancient Europe, stating its boundaries, physical features, products, manufactures, divisions, and principal towns." 1065 attachés attachés "Explain fully the nature of the important change that was introduced in the tenure of land in Prussia in 1811, and its effects both present and probable. Write a geographical description of Denmark, mentioning its situation, extent, population, features, mineral, and vegetable products. Explain the following terms:—'Amter,' 'Stifter, Folksthing amtman,' 'Tons of hardcom, Landsting.' Discuss the most important political questions which have agitated Ireland for the last thirty years, mentioning the enactments they may have led to, and the eminent men who have taken a prominent part in connection with them. What was the constitution of the Canadas established in 1791? Mention the most important alterations which have been subsequently introduced." 1066 attachés,
 MR. STEUART  said, the general law on this subject was that no priest, unless he was ordained as a minister of the Church
 1043
 MR. LEFROY  thought the Bill as it stood would be general in its operation; and if it were to extend to Ireland he should certainly ask for the same extension in favour of Trinity College, Dublin, as had been already extended to Oxford and Cambridge Universities,
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir. I have no wish to trespass on Her Majesty's Government for information which it may be inconvenient for them to give at the present moment; but I am sure they will allow for the deep interest which the country must feel in the present state of public affairs. Under these circumstances I would be glad to know from the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, whether he has received any communication respecting the interview which was anticipated to take place yesterday between the Emperor of the French and the Emperor of Austria, and whether he can inform the House what has been the general consequence of that meeting?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  quite agreed with the hon. Member for Birmingham that this House was not the proper tribunal for ecclesiastical discussion. But the hon. Member was mistaken, if he thought that the House could legislate on this subject without practically expressing an opinion. But he thought there was no reason why they should not express their opinion on this particular case, because he doubted very much whether the House ought to pass any Private Bill of this kind. This Gentleman could not come before the House except by virtue of his connection with the Episcopal Church of Scotland, and the Episcopal Church of Scotland had passed him under its censure—he had been condemned by the authority, in virtue of which he appeared before the House—and yet this gentleman asked the House to grant him a special privilege to which the House generally objected. The House therefore could not fail to express its opinion with respect to this claim. The Episcopal Church of Scotland was not the Established Church, and in many important respects its formularies and its doctrines and acceptance of the Thirty-nine Articles were not those of the Church of England. This gentleman was condemned by the Episcopal Church of Scotland, and he (Mr. Newdegate) did not see how they could admit him to the benefits of the Church of England with which he still more widely differed. He must oppose the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he did not understand it to be the object of the hon. and learned Gentleman to raise any discussion on the subject, as that could only take place satisfactorily after the papers which were now called for had been placed before the House. The question raised by the hon. and learned Member was twofold in its nature, and he thought these two questions ought to he kept distinct. One was with regard to the propriety of Mr. Chisholm Anstey's suspension from the office of Attorney General of Hong Kong, and of its confirmation by the late Government; and the other was with regard to the grave and serious charges against Mr. Caldwell and other officials in the colony. The Governor and Executive Council had suspended Mr. Anstey from the office of Attorney General, and the late Secretary of State for the Colonies had confirmed the suspension. No doubt the Government had refused to communicate to Mr. Anstey the grounds upon which that decision was arrived at, because they could not do so without, in fact, com-
 1060
 MR. GRIFFITH  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether he will be prepared to state the views and intentions of Government on the subject of church rates on the second reading of the Bill for the abolition of church rates.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  thought the request of the hon. Gentleman was a reasonable one, and would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  in rising to move for Copies of certain Papers relative to Hong Kong, said it would be necessary to make a few remarks, in order to render intelligible to the House the grounds upon which he asked for the production of the Correspondence. Mr. Chisholm Anstey having been appointed Attorney General of Hong Kong, arrived in the island in January, 1856. On his arrival at Hong Kong, Sir John Bowring was Governor; Mr. Caldwell was the Registrar General and Protector of Chinese, and a justice of the peace; Dr. Bridges was Colonial Secretary, and a member of the Executive Council. Mr. Anstey had no very agreeable prospect of the duties before him, for two days after his arrival Sir John Bowring intimated to him the corrupt state of the island, and claimed his support in stemming the tide of corruption. In July, 1857 a young American was tried for piracy at Hong Kong. The trial was described in an interesting letter by Mr. Wingrove Cooke, who was then the correspondent of  The Times 1058 v. Friend of China Friend of China Friend of China, v.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that the recognition of the ordination of the Church of Rome by the Church of England, while she refused to recognize the ordination of Protestant Dissenters, indicated a greater affinity between the Established Church and Romanism than existed between her and Nonconformity. The Vicar of Sheffield, a large minded and exalted clergyman of the Established Church, was prohibited from preaching in any Nonconformist pulpit, although he was allowed to preach in the open air. He hoped the day was not far distant when all religious denominations would be placed on a footing of perfect equality, and when the time of the House would not he wasted with these unseemly discussions.
 MR. HUNT  pointed out that there was no legislative inability in the Bishop of Aberdeen holding his present title, inasmuch as the Scotch bishops were expressly excepted out of the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill.
 MR. FREELAND  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether Her Majesty's Government intend to reintroduce the Ecclesiastical Commission Bill of the late Government, or to introduce any new Bill of their own during the present Session? Whether or not the attention of Her Majesty's Government has been called to the concluding paragraph of the Eighth Report of the Church Estates Commissioners, from which, and from the evidence annexed, it appears that between the mode of valuing the Reversions of Church-house property employed by the Surveyor to the Commissioners and that contended for by the Lessees of such property there is a difference in cases of Enfranchisement on the part of the former of £800,000 on the whole in favour of the Church, or the Ecclesiastical Commission, and, by consequence, adversely to the Lessees? Whether or not it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to leave such Surveyor in future to value without appeal, or to provide that the Lessees of such property shall be at liberty, in cases of enfranchisement, to claim a reference to arbitration?
 MR. BUTT  concurred in thinking it inconvenient and anomalous to exclude Ireland. The principle of the Bill was to alter the law which assumed that "honest and godly men" meant members of the Established Church. It would be impossible to sustain a privilege in favour of the Established Church in Ireland if it were given up in England. He suggested that
 1077
 MR. WILSON  said, that perhaps the noble Lord was not aware that when papers which were ordered were not presented before the close of the Session the order became a dropped order. In order to obviate this inconvenience the practice was to present the papers, and they were then printed during the recess. In printing financial papers there was another reason for the delay, as it was necessary to send them back to the office to examine the figures by other Returns. The Motion, if carried in its present form, would often affix blame very unjustly on the printer,
 1075
 MR. WILSON : No doubt such information would be extremely desirable, and he, as a member of the Printing Committee and of that House, would be very glad if the suggestion of the hon. and learned Gentleman could be adopted; but he was afraid that until it was known how many copies of a Return were to be printed the printer would not be able to state what the cost would be.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he hoped the noble Lord would allow this matter to come under the consideration of the House before any final steps were taken with respect to it. He (Mr. Bright) was himself a little interested in the growth of cotton; but he protested against being supposed on that account to ask for the acceptance by this country of the Sovereignty of the Feejee Islands.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the House had not been able very clearly to understand the merits of the case either from the speech of the hon. Member for Cambridge (Mr. Steuart), or from his right hon. Friend who sat on the front Opposition bench (Mr. Sotheron Estcourt). It had been proposed to send this Bill to a Committee, who were to decide, he supposed, whether or not this gentleman held sound opinions, and whether he ought or ought not to be under the ban of his bishop. Now he (Mr. Bright) protested against the House of Commons being made the tribunal of any such controversy. This Bill did not profess to go to the Committee upon any principle. He (Mr. Blight) believed there was no principle in it, hut rather upon the practice of not allowing a gentleman ordained north of the Tweed to officiate south of that river. The Bill certainly tended to produce a free trade in clergymen. The Chancellor of the Exchequer allowed spirits to pass across the Tweed free of duty, and he did not know why spiritual teachers should not be equally exempt from interference. The English Church was not so particular as to refuse the priests ordained by the Roman Catholic Church without further qualification; unless this gentleman were much deeper dyed than a Roman Catholic priest, there is no reason why a refusal should be extended to him. This subject, no doubt, should be dealt with by a general measure. At the same time it seemed that this opposition was not the fault of this gentleman. He (Mr. Bright) had very little sympathy with any of them, but he thought that the House ought to pass this Bill, no objection having been raised to any previous measure of the same kind; and then if a grievance were established, it might be removed by a general measure, and thus the House be spared the pain of a somewhat humiliating discussion.
 MR. SPEAKER  severally put the names of Mr. DILLWYN, the ATTORNEY GENERAL, Lord STANLEY, and Sir JAMBS GRAHAM, which were agreed to. The name of Mr. LOWE having been put,
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, the House would easily get out of the difficulty by inserting a clause at the end of the Bill, as was very frequently done in other cases, declaring that it should not extend to Ireland.
 MR. ROEBUCK  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman a question. Many most useless Returns and Reports were printed at a great expense, and he would suggest that a check might be put upon such waste by endorsing on each printed Return the cost of the printing.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, it appeared to him that a fair statement of this case had not yet been made. The right hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) objected to any deviation from a general law which was a good law. He agreed with him in the objection. But what was the fact? There were two classes of men to whom he would direct the attention of the House—Catholic priests and Episcopalian clergymen. They acknowledge the ordination of the Catholic priest, and the moment he called himself a member of the Church of England, his ordination being admitted, he could at once take a benefice. But, when a Protestant Episcopalian
 1048
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  asked if the guarantee were to continue, in case the cable should be broken?
 CAPTAIN LEICESTER VERNON  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for War whether Knapsacks, with Berington's slings attached, have not been tried at Aldershot, and whether any Report respecting them has been received at headquarters?
 MR. DILLWYN  nominated the Members to servo on the Select Committee on this Bill. The hon. Gentleman said he had endeavoured to select such names as would be agreeable to both sides of the House.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he had no wish to make the Committee exclusive. As he was informed by a report of what took place elsewhere last evening that a Committee was now considering the question of endowed schools in Ireland, he should meet the objection of the hon. and gallant Member by confining the operation of this Bill to Great Britain.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, that on a future day he would move the addition of two Irish Members.
 MR. M'MAHON  thought that if the Bill was good for England it must be good for Ireland. He protested against this exceptional legislation, and regretted that the hon. Member should have consented to curtail the operation of the Bill to get off the difficulty of altering a few names.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, that as the Irish Members were only one sixth of the House, four in a Committee of sixteen would be more than a due proportion.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, that if the Motion stood "corrected Return," no blame could attach to the printer.
 MR. LONGFIELD  contended that Irish interests were distinctly embraced in this measure—first, because that portion of the kingdom was not distinctly exempted; secondly, because the question of endowed schools was one in which she was vitally interested; and thirdly, because, though the operation of the present Act might not immediately extend to Ireland, it would be impossible that its principle could long be confined to this country.
 MR. LAING  replied, that it would be continued only so long as messages could be transmitted at the rate he had mentioned.
 MR. LAING  said, the object of the clause to which his noble Friend adverted was to enable the Treasury to carry out with the Company the terms of the contract which had been agreed upon by then-predecessors before the present Ministry came into office. The terms of the agreement were in substance, that the Government should guarantee a minimum dividend of 8 per cent on a capital of £600,000, the guarantee, however, being entirely conditional on the success of the undertaking. The guarantee was only to come into effect in case the cable was laid down successfully, so as to work at least 100 words per hour. He did not know that it was necessary for him to go into the details of the arrangement. It was not open to the objection that was taken to the Red Sea Telegraph guarantee, but was a guarantee conditional on the work done. He believed that if the cable were successfully laid, the commercial receipts would return the sum, or nearly the sum guaranteed. However, the arrangement had been made by their predecessors, and was therefore binding on the present Government; and after the decision of the House last night in the case of the Red Sea Telegraph, he trusted that the further stages of the Bill would not be opposed.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he was not a promoter of the Bill, nor had he any acquaintance with the Rev. Mr. Greive, but he thought the course recommended by the hon. Member was at variance with all precedent, and unjust to an individual. After a person had gone to the expense of promoting a Bill of this nature in Parliament, in accordance with the practice which had heretofore prevailed, it was hard to suddenly turn round and say, "We will shut the door against you because we now think these cases ought to be dealt with by a general Act applicable to all cases." That might be a good propo-
 1044
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he had observed that many Bills of the same description had been passed already.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : My hon. Friend who has submitted this Motion has very ingeniously stated that a considerable portion of his
 1067 1068 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to instruct the Civil Service Examiners that all persons who entered any service or profession prior to the 21st day of May, 1853, to which service or profession the present system of examinations is applicable, shall be considered eligible for promotion without being subjected to any examination." 1069 attachés attachés. attachés, attachés, attachés, attachés, attachés 1070 pritnâ facie attachés attachés attachés attachés, 1071 ex parte
 CAPTAIN GRAY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War what progress has been made in its inquiry by the Militia Commission appointed on the 9th of July, 1858; and whether a Report may be expected from it during the present Session of Parliament?
 MR. MONSELL  said, the hon. Gentle-man who introduced the Motion had entirely mistaken the object of the Civil Service Commissioners in putting the questions referred to. The object was not to
 1072
 MR. MURRAY  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General whether it is his intention to proceed this Session with a Bill brought from the Lords, intituled "An Act to Amend the Law of Debtor and Creditor, Bankruptcy, Insolvency, and Execution;" and what are his intentions in reference to the existing Law of Bankruptcy and its administration, and generally in reference to the Law of Debtor and Creditor and its amendment?
 COLONEL SYKES  said he wished to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether the Government proposes to re-
 1053
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  believed too much importance was attached to this system of examination in the public department. It certainly had had the effect of preventing persons with interest who could hardly read or write from getting appointments; but the object would be much better attained by adopting the same course in the selection of public servants as was taken by merchants and manufacturers in the choice of their clerks. That would be better than asking those unaccountable and foolish questions. If a man had been some years in the public service, the inquiry should not be whether he could answer outrageous and out-of-the-way questions, but whether he had properly discharged the duties which had been before intrusted to him.
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  wished to point out that in this Bill Dr. Skinner was called a "bishop of the Episcopal Church of Scotland and Bishop of Aberdeen." Now, there was no objection to the former designation, but to describe him as the "Bishop of Aberdeen" was a highly objectionable innovation.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that in stating his views upon this question, he must be understood as expressing merely his own opinions. The state of the law had been, no doubt, accurately laid down by the hon. Member who moved the Amendment. By an Act of the 32nd of  Geo. 1049 1050
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, that speaking on the part of the Church of England, he thought the result proposed to be attained by this measure ought to be effected by a public Bill. If Mr. Greive was to be permitted to hold a living or officiate in the Church of England the opposition of the House would not necessarily prevent him, for he would be relieved by the provisions of the general measure if it were passed. He thought the House ought to resist this request of Mr. Greive.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, the difference between the two cases was, that the guarantee to the Red Sea Telegraph
 1042
 Mr. STIRLING  said, that Mr. Greive's case was not that of a Scotchman seeking entrance into the Church of England. He was an Englishman born, but he happened to receive the close of his education in Scotland, and there he was ordained in order to enable him to hold a living near Aberdeen in the year 1850, and there he had remained ever since until now. Very lately his circumstances had changed. He (Mr. Stirling) believed that within a few months past his father had died leaving him to take charge of an infirm relative, who was a ward in Chancery, and to whom he had been appointed guardian. This compelled him to live in England. Then what was he to do? As regarded the circumstances under which he left Scotland, it appeared that he had been severely reprimanded by the bishop. And why? A certain gentleman was arraigned by the bishop for holding opinions supposed to be erroneous; and Mr. Greive, with eight other gentlemen, refused to give an opinion on the subject, because the gentleman arraigned had taken a technical objection to the charge, and refused to plead. He fully admitted that the bishop did make remarks on what was called Mr. Greive's contumacy; but in the letters of dismissal the bishop and others testified that for the space of three years, during which they had known him, Mr. Greive had lived piously, soberly, and honestly, and had written and taught nothing against the doctrine and discipline of the Episcopal Church of Scotland, or of England. Therefore the ecclesiastical censure passed by the bishop had been washed away. There
 1045
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  wished to state, in a few words, the grounds upon which he should give his vote against this Bill. The discussion, as far as the legal argument had gone, had been a discussion on the merits of the law as it now stood,
 1051
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : This matter is one which as of necessity attracted a great deal of my attention, and I have no hesitation in saying that though, like other arrangements, there may be some defects in the system, it has tended very much to the advantage of the public service. It is quite true that it has frequently operated to shut out from the public service young men who might have been perfectly competent to perform the duties of the office for which they were competitors; but, on the other hand, it is quite certain that those who have succeeded have been in every way young men who were peculiarly qualified for the discharge of their duties. I have had occasion frequently to represent to the Civil Service Commissioners that some of the questions were
 1073 1074 at-taché attachés.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : The question for discussion has been so frequently debated that I should not have troubled the House were it not that an appeal was made to me to state my views on it. I am therefore unwilling that a vote should be taken without my having done so. In the first place, then, though the House is well aware of the nature of the church rate, I wish to state distinctly that it differs in character from all other local rates in this country in being a voluntary rate, for which the Court of Queen's Bench will not grant a  mandamus, 1162 d. 1163 1164 1165 1166 "Delicta majorum immentus lues, "Romane; donec templa refeceris, "Ædesque labentes Deorum,et "Fœda nigro simulacra fumo." 1167 1168
 MR. PACKE  said, he thought it a sufficient reason for Baying that the Bill ought
 1155 "Certainly I for one cannot assent to the principle put forward by the Protestant Dissenters, that as a matter of conscience church rates ought to be abolished. That is a somewhat new scruple on their part. When it was proposed in former days that Dissenters should not be compelled to attend church, and that they should not be prevented from having chapels of their own, it was very properly argued that it was a principle
 1156  Hansard, "I must tell you that I think that question has come to this point, that either the present law must be maintained or church rates must be altogether abolished. And being of opinion that the maintenance of the present law is not good for the country, that it produces much heart-burning in the view of Dissenters, it is objectionable, on the ground of conscience, and that they have a dislike to the payment of these rates, I am of opinion that providing means can be found for such voluntary collections as may be useful, church rates ought to be altogether abolished." "A gentleman seemed to he of opinion I am not in favour of abolition of church rates. I tell you I am. I was formerly in hopes some compromise could be found, and a compromise was attempted by a Member of Viscount Palmerston's Government, and a very able man—I allude to Sir George Grey. A compromise was also attempted by Mr. Walpole. They both failed, and I own it appears to me that it is not likely to prove of benefit to the country to maintain, to keep up the ill-will already excited on this subject, and that it would be far better to make at once provision for the voluntary maintenance of the
 1157
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  explained that he had not referred to Dr. Phillimore's Bill, but to a plan subsequently brought forward, he believed, by those with whom he was now acting, and which was received with disapprobation by hon. Gentlemen opposite.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he had listened with the greatest pleasure and delight to nine-tenths of the right hon. Gentleman's speech, containing as it did a candid admission of the extreme futility of the objections commonly urged against church rates. To his great astonishment, however, the right hon. Gentleman's admirable preface had been followed by a most lame and impotent conclusion. For he came to the conclusion that it would be right to give his support to the second reading of this Bill, which in rural parishes would, according to his own statement, set up a less just and equitable system than it proposed to remove. And what was his argument? Beginning with an accurate description of the past and present state of the law on this subject, he went on to establish, in a clear and satisfactory manner, that the grievances of the Dissenters could not arise from the pecuniary pressure of church rates, but rather from their conscientious scruples to pay them. Now, however much force there might have been in the latter class of objections previous to the rejection of the late Bill of the right hon. Member for Cambridge University, putting an end ab-
 1169 1170 1171
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I wish to state as shortly as I can the reasons why I shall give my vote for the second reading of this Bill. I have, as the House is aware, defended the continuance of church rates, and I feel very much flattered by the remark of the right hon. Gentleman opposite that I have done so effectively. Certainly I did so to the best of my power, and not feebly or evasively. I am sorry, however, to say that in the efforts which I made to prevent the abolition of church rates I had no countenance or support from the right hon. Gentleman. I had to fight what I thought a good cause without any assistance from the great leader of the Conservative party. When it was a question of the maintenance of church rates, and my noble Friend and myself fought the battle much to the displeasure of hon. Gentlemen
 1180 1181 1182 1183
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said; that in rising to second the Amendment which had been so ably proposed by his hon. Friend, he must claim the indulgence which that House always extended to its new Members. He must ask this favour not only because it was such a short tittle since he had taken his seat, but also because he had never yet participated in the deliberations of the House. The subject was now indeed trite and worn. It had been handled and debated for the last thirty years. He could not expect, therefore, to add much to debates which had so long endured, nor hope to discover new arguments besides those which had been already employed. The House had now not merely to decide on a matter of church rates; that was not the real question before them. In the Bill before the House there was not raised any question whether the machinery for levying church rates was faulty; nor even whether the State should provide funds in some other way to support the Established Church. By the present Bill those funds were simply cut off; for the effect of this Bill, and the real intention of those who desired the abolition of church rates, was to have no Church at all supported by the State. The late Earl
 1141 "We give notice to Churchmen that, as far as we are concerned we shall not the less earnestly seek for the separation of the Church from the State because we have got rid of church rates. We require the Church of England to be reduced to what she is—one of the sects." 1142 Nonconformist "The society has quietly moved the question into this more promising position without any violent shock to the prejudices of opponents Any one who remembers what the political world said and thought about the separation of Church and State when the society first came into existence may well stand astonished at the tone in which it is now alluded to by statesmen of all shades of opinion. If the Liberation Society had done nothing else this would entitle it to the respect and gratitude of the country. To it, and to it alone, as a designing agency, belongs the credit of having turned the doctrine of self-government and self-support of ecclesiastical institutions from a theological controversy into a political movement." "Such a change of law would extinguish the taxing power of the Establishment and dry up one of the sources of its revenue, while the ecclesiastical revenues, applied to the purposes for which
 1143 1144 1145 "If it shall come to this, that you shall say you have nothing to do with religion as rulers of the nation, God will quickly manifest that He hath nothing to do with you as rulers. It is incumbent upon you to take care that the faith which you have received may be protected, preserved, propagated to and among the people which God hath set you over." "Let us much more give God praise for the national establishment of our religion; that Christianity is supported by good and wholesome laws, and is twisted in with the very constitution of our Government." "Maintain the Protestant reformed religion as established by law, and to preserve unto the bishops and clergy of this realm, and to the churches committed to their charge, all such rights and privileges as by law do or shall appertain unto them or any of them." 1146 "We do apprehend that on the overthrow of this
 1147 1148
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I have listened with great interest to the speech of the noble Viscount, and I quite agree with him that changes of opinion upon all subjects of public importance are open to every Gentleman who wishes to profit by the lessons of reflection and experience. The noble Lord has, upon several occasions, made interesting announcements of changes in his opinion to the House. I remember, when I first entered the House of Commons, he informed us that he had become a juvenile Whig. I am bound to say that was a change which brought to his party great power and lustre, and if I thought that by
 1176 1177 1178 1179
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he had no wish to occupy the attention of the House with a lengthened speech on a subject which appeared to him to have been almost exhausted in previous debates, but he must make a remark or two on what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House. That hon. Member took objection to his hon. Friend who had moved the Amendment having described the Dissenters as calling upon the Established Church to "stand and deliver;" and observed that what they said was merely "hands off." But that was not what the Bill before the House said. Take the case of places in which Churchmen and Dissenters were unanimous in levying the rate. What did the Bill say? Why, this—"You shall not levy church rates, whether you be unanimous for doing so or not. You shall forego this claim whether adverse or of consent." The hon. Gentleman also talked of injustice and picking pockets. He (Mr. Adderley) should like to ascertain on which side a charge of violence lay. He regretted that the hon. Baronet who had charge of the Bill was not present. If he were he should ask him on what ground he could justify so violent a measure. It was urged by the advocates of the Bill that there was a difficulty in dealing with the case, and hence a necessity of wholesale legislation. It was certainly a very easy way to get rid of a difficulty in dealing with property to abolish it altogether. Now, what was the true state of the case? In the first place, church rates were a common law liability; and in the next, no church rates could be levied except by the consent of the majority of the ratepayers in vestry assembled. It was argued indeed against church rates that in some cases a minority were overriden by a majority, who imposed the rate on all. There might be a grievance there; but it was an infinitesimal grievance in this country, in which the majority rules everything. Supposing it was a grievance for the minority to have to pay rates levied by the majority, how did this Bill propose to remedy that grievance? By inflicting a greater grievance on the majority the abolitionists said that church rates were an injustice; but this Bill was replete with injustice to wards all those parishes which hitherto had always consented, and desired to pay the rates. The existing agitation was to
 1152 in toto 1153
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that in the lost Parliament he had proposed a Committee of the whole House to consider the propriety of imposing on all property with respect to which church rates had been paid for seven years a charge of 2 d. 1187
 LORD FERMOY  said, that he felt himself bound to address a few words to the House on the present occasion. They had had that day two speeches from the opposite side of the House of a retrograde character. One was the speech of the right hon. Member for Staffordshire (Mr. Adderley), and the other was the speech of the hon. Member for the King's County (Mr. Hennessy). The right hon. Gentleman said it was his desire to leave the matter where it was. Let them remember that that right hon. Gentleman was a Member of a Government who introduced a Bill the principle of which was that the minority should not be obliged to pay for the church of the majority. The hon. Member for the King's County called on the Roman Catholic Members not to assist the Dissenters in this attack on the Church. But the Bill was no attack on the Church; it was not a step to abolish the connection between Church and State. They would only strengthen the Church by doing away with a grievance and an injustice. Look at what had been done in Ireland. In Ireland a measure had been carried by which tithes were no longer paid by the tenant, and no less than ten bishoprics abolished, with about one-fourth of the revenues of the Church. Yet the Irish Church, so far from being weakened, was stronger and more firmly established in connection with the State than ever before. The hon. Gentleman also asked the Roman Catholics to oppose the Bill, as they enjoyed the grant to Maynooth. If the hon. Gentleman put the grant to Maynooth on that footing, it was not worth two years' purchase; if it was put in the same boat with church rates, it would not
 1172
 MR. DRUMMOND : Sir, the result of this debate has so narrowed the question which has been discussed in this House for some years past that I am anxious not to repeat things that have been said either by myself or by others; but I wish to indicate to the House the exact point at which we have now arrived. The right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary dates this question truly from the decision of the House of Lords in the Braintree case. The natural way of getting rid of the evil then introduced was by bringing in a law to put church rates on the same ground as all other rates. This was the business of the bishops, but they did not do it; and, they having neglected their duty, there is certainly a grievance in the great towns, where additional churches have been built, and where the whole produce of the rates goes to the original parish church, leaving none at all for the new churches. Upon this the Dissenters have founded two grievances—one of them true, and the other false. The true grievance I have already mentioned; the false one is the plea of conscience. An hon. Gentleman (Mr. Baines) has told us how matters stood at the origin of Christianity. Why, in those early days a conscience was a troublesome thing, and cost people a good deal. The modern consciences of Dissenters gain them a good deal. For such consciences, Sir, I have neither respect nor tenderness. You have, I think, been very much shooting in ambush—exercising something after the fashion of the rifle corps. You have been discussing various collateral issues, being afraid to touch the main point. The Dissenters have, as I have said before, honestly told you in this House and out of it, that the question is a contest  à l'outrance 1173
 MR. HENNESSY  had listened with attention to what the hon. Member for Leeds, who addressed them as a Protestant Dissenter, had said upon this subject. He bad frankly declared his determination to oppose the Maynooth grant as vigorously as he had opposed church rates. The principle on which that hon. Member and the other English Dissenters acted was well understood. There was no disguising the fact, that to appropriate a large sum of money taken from the general taxes of all classes to the maintenance and repair of the College of Maynooth involved precisely the same political principle as that which was now under discussion. Of course there were wide differences of detail, but the principle in each case was the some. Hence it was that the division lists against Maynooth and against church rates bore such a striking resemblance to each other. Now,
 1159 1160 1161
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he would not have trespassed on the House but for the appeal made by the hon. Member for the King's County (Mr. Hennessy) to Roman Catholics. He believed he and every other Catholic Member would go into a different lobby from the hon. Member. From 1852 he had always supported the principle of this Bill, and would still do so. This was not an attack on the institution of the Church, but an attack on an abuse. It was not fair to make a Roman Catholic or a Dissenter pay for the worship of a Protestant. The Roman Catholic Church in Ireland was entirely voluntary, yet what was the result? Every day saw new churches and convents rising up. So also if church rates were done away with the Protestants of England would be able to maintain their Church. In all the battles for Catholic freedom the Dissenters had supported them, and he would now return that support. The Established Church in Ireland was not a bulwark of liberty, but a monument of oppression. Take the case of a Roman Catholic landlord forced to pay a Protestant clergyman, who rendered no service to him or his tenants. The Establishment was an abuse, and the Irish Roman Catholics would be every day calling with a louder voice on the Dissenters of England to aid them in their attack on it.
 MR. MELLOR  said, he thought that if the Bill sought to do an act of justice—if it sought to allay irritation and heart burnings—if it sought to put the Church on a better footing in regard to her position towards Dissenters—the House ought to pass it. Having been at one time a candidate for the representation of Coventry he was somewhat acquainted with the circumstances connected with that city, and would only remark that all the candidates who offered themselves professed a desire for the total abolition of church rates. He was therefore surprized to learn that church rates were now so popular there. But did not every man know that all the great restoration of churches were the result of voluntary movements, and not of church rates? Take the case of Birmingham. The death-blow to church rates in that town had been given by the institution of a prosecution for their support, and if anything showed the advantage of dispensing with church rates it was the improved state in which the churches now were in that town. It was the same in Nottingham, Liverpool, and other large towns, where the religious element among the people had much improved since these rates were abolished. There was some plausibility, perhaps, in the argument sometimes used respecting the need of church rates in rural parishes, but in those places the rates, so far from being expended on the repairs of the churches, were expended on objects of a most illegitimate character, and entirely diverted from their legitimate object. The fact was, however, that in the rural districts the rates were in many instances made in consequence of a wholesome fear of the landlords; but if they were abolished those feelings would remain in full force, and
 1154
 MR. DILLWYN  said, that the Bill had come very unexpectedly into his hands on account of the illness of the hon. Baronet the Member for Tavistock, and he was quite willing to take any course which was for the convenience of the House.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, that in the unavoidable absence of the hon. Member for Tavistock (Sir J. Trelawny), he rose to move the second reading of this Bill; but as the question had been already amply discussed, he should not detain the House by any observations of his on the subject, susceptible as it was of so little novelty in the way of argument. It might be said that the present was a new Parliament, and therefore some explanation of the Bill was necessary; but there were so few new Members in the present Assembly, and they were all so well acquainted with the bearings of the question, that he should simply content himself with moving the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. STANILAND  said, that as it was hopeless to imagine that that House could ever find any substitute for church rates which would be satisfactory to the clergymen of the Church of England, it became a question whether that House should not take an enlarged view of the question and come to a conclusion upon it satisfactory to the country at large. The hon. and learned Member for Nottingham (Mr. Mellor) had referred to the very large amount which during the last seven years had been voluntarily subscribed by the members of the Church not only for the repairs of the fabric, but for the services of the Church, and it was a remarkable circumstance that the amount so subscribed exceeded the sum raised by compulsory means. There was, moreover, a great sum voluntarily subscribed for building churches, and these facts furnished the strongest possible evidence that in the absence of any church rate there would always be found sufficient zeal in the members of the Church to support the fabric. It was stated that church rates had existed time out of mind, but that circumstance furnished no reason why they should not be abolished by the State, like any other imposts, if the circumstances of the country required their removal. It was contended by some that as the Church of England was the national church all ought to contribute to it; but he denied the proposition generally that the Church of England was the national church. Legally it might he so, but practically it was not so, for a large proportion of the population conscientiously dissented from the doctrines of the Church, It was objected that, should
 1158
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he understood the noble Viscount to intimate that in Committee arrangements might be made for establishing some substitute in place of church rates. If clauses to this effect were to be introduced the Government no doubt would take them in hand, and give notice of their purport. This, however, would render it necessary to go into Committee to-morrow. Perhaps the noble Viscount would state his intention on this point?
 MR. DU CANE : Sir, I rise to move the Amendment of which I have given notice, that this Bill be read a second time this day throe months. In one respect I can certainly agree with the hon. Member who has just spoken, that the question involved in this measure is one which has been so amply and ably discussed in this House, especially during the last two Sessions, that I could well imagine the House would be content to abstain from lengthened argument on the present occasion, and give a plain aye
 1130 1131 " The good old rule, the simple plan, That those should take who have the power, And those should keep who can." 1132 1133 1134 1135 1136 "We are able to state that the voluntary system, after a trial of twenty-five years in our churches, has been proved inadequate to supply the want of a church rate." "We can affirm, after long and painful experience, that nothing can be more unsatisfactory, generally speaking, than what is dignified by the name of the voluntary system as a substitution for the legal rate; while some of the older churches are falling into decay, it is rarely that the contributions for the ordinary annual expenses are to be found sufficient for the purpose. "There is another aspect of the question of still greater importance. At this moment there is practically no provision for the expenses incidental to public worship in any church of this town. In some (the wealthy) this is a question of no importance; in their present condition every want is readily supplied; but in others the case is different, as the people want the means and want the application of the Gospel. There are six or seven churches of this town in which pew rents have almost ceased to exist; and there are about as many others in which they are fast disappearing. So that just in proportion as a church is missionary in its character, and in proportion to the strength
 1137 "The application to secular uses, after an equitable satisfaction of existing interests, of all national property now held in trust by the United Church of England and Ireland and the Presbyterian Church of Scotland, and concurrently with the liberation of these Churches from all state control." 1138 "It will but skin and film the ulcerous place, Whilst rank corruption, mining all within, Infects unseen." 1139 1140
 MR. BAINES  said, that in discussing this question he thought it only fair and right to say that he stood up avowedly as a Dissenter, and as one of those who did not approve the union of Church and State. He felt it his duty to support this measure. Although a Dissenter, he had great respect for the Evangelical clergy of the Church of England. He agreed with their doctrines, and he
 1149 1150 "What other principle than this (that of the power of free spontaneous association) has during the same period in England achieved the erection of more new churches and chapels, with congregations of earnest worshippers, than all the Governments of Europe and all the clergy had been able to erect during the last four centuries?" 1151
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that in speaking of a substitute for church rates he was referring only to voluntary contributions.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I am anxious to state in a very few words the grounds upon which I shall give my deliberate vote in support of the Bill before the House. I think that I have never hitherto voted for a Bill of this description. [ Laughter from the Opposition. 1174 Laughter from the Opposition 1175
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, he rose to ask the Lord Advocate, whether it is the intention of the Government to include any provision in the Estimates of the present year for the Sheriff Courts in Scotland?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he understood that in the Estimates of the present year there was no such Vote, and without an Act of Parliament it would not be possible for the Government to include a sum in the Estimates for that purpose.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the Question of his hon. and learned Friend, was founded upon a Report of the Astronomer Royal which was laid before Parliament last session. That Report stated that besides the standards of weights and measures deposited in the Exchequer, under the custody of the Comptroller of the Exchequer, there were certain provincial and local standards of weights and measures, which might be called secondary standards, as to which there had been a deficiency of reverification of late years. The process had been very irregularly repeated; and, in answer to his hon. and learned Friend's question, he would beg to remark—first, that there was no need of the process of reverification being repeated very often, as the Standards, having been once verified, were subject to very little wear and tear and to little or no change; and, secondly that the law did not provide a fund for the payment of the costs of such reverification, which must fall either upon the public purse or upon some local fund.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he should have no objection to the introduction of a measure on the subject, if the question of how the expense of the reverification should be borne could be satisfactorily settled.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he could
 1203
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he desired to have some further information on this subject. It was very important that leave of absence should not be unnecessarily extended at this period of the Session, otherwise there would be a very unequal pressure upon Members serving upon Election Committees. He thought that those who moved for leave of absence for other Members should ascertain whether the grounds were really such as to justify the indulgence.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he could assure the right hon. Gentleman that he had ascertained the facts in this instance. Mr. Tottenham met with an accident a short time ago, and was suffering from a slight concussion of the brain, and he (Sir W. Jolliffe) had in his pocket a doctor's certificate upon the point.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, the hon. Baronet's praise of the French military organization was perfectly well deserved; but was not the perfection of that system due to the fact that the office of Minister of War was always held by one of their most distinguished military commanders. He did not refer to his right hon. Friend, because under no Administration had the army benefited more largely than under his. But according to our system the army, generally speaking, was in the hands of men who probably did not know whether a soldier wore his pouch over his left shoulder or his right. In this country, where the War Secretary must be in Parliament, it might be difficult to carry out such a system; but he believed that the reason the French and Sardinian armies were in so efficient a condition was because those armies were administered by officers of experience and distinction, and not as in England by civilians, who knew nothing of the feelings and the prejudices of the soldier.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that no practical benefit would arise from this Amendment. Under the late Judge inconvenience sometimes arose from his being at liberty at the same time to practise at the bar. It was now proposed that if the magistrates granted £300 additional to the salary of Assistant Judge, he should be debarred from private practice. The Bill was limited to the single object, of raising the salary of the Assistant Judge of Middlesex on the condition of his relinquishing his private practice, and the general question of relinquishment of private practice by judicial officers was not raised by it. The hon. and learned Gentleman sought to engraft upon the Bill a wholly new principle. Under such a regulation recorders in England, assistant barristers in Ireland, and sheriffs in Scotland would be prevented
 1276
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  reminded the hon. Gentleman that the clause was permissive not compulsory. If the magistrates believed as they had represented to the Government, that it was an injury to the public that the Assistant Judge should be allowed to retain his private practice they would pay him the £300; but if on the other hand, they did not think so, then they would not pay it. It was for them to consider whether the evil arising from the Judge continuing to practise was or was not equivalent to £300 a year.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he did not oppose the Bill now as the additional salary was not to be charged upon the Consolidated Fund; but whenever any proposal should be made to the magistrates of Middlesex to increase the salary of the Assistant Judge he, as one of them, should oppose it.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  thought the public interest was rather lost sight of. If it was an evil that the Judge should practise at the bar, that evil would continue if the magistrates did not choose to pay £300 a year from the county rates. He thought eligible persons could have been found to fill the office with the present salary and who would consent to give up their private practice.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  observed that the salary of the Assistant Judge had always been paid by the Government. It was admitted that his continuing to practise was a great public inconvenience, and
 1277
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, this was not a gratuitous proposition of his. The present holder of the office, Mr. Bodkin, accepted it on a distinct promise from the late Government that if debarred from private practice he should receive a salary of £1,500 a year.
 MR. CRAUFURD  opposed the contract because it was entered into without the authority of the House.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE , on the question that the Preamble he agreed to, moved a Clause.
 "That so soon as the present Assistant Judge shall cease to hold his office as such Judge, the 10th Section of the said Act shall be repealed so far as relates to the salary of any future Assistant Judge; and it shall then be lawful for the said Justices, in Sessions as aforesaid, to resolve that an annual salary of not less than £1,200 and not exceeding £1,500 in the whole, be paid to the Assistant Judge of the said Court; and thereafter such Judge shall not practise as a Barrister nor hold any other office, during his tenure of such Assistant Judgeship; and such salary shall be paid by equal quarterly payments out of the County Rates of the said County, with a due appointment thereof in the case of the death or resignation of the Assistant Judge for the time being during the currency of any quarter."
 MR. BYNG  suggested that if the county paid, the county should have the power of appointing. At present the Government appointed.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  admitted the justice of the proposal, but as the practice had been in existence some years, he felt some difficulty as to the course he should adopt. Middlesex stood in a peculiar position. First this court had a large share of criminal business; and secondly the Court of Quarter Sessions had concurrent jurisdiction with the Central Criminal Court. The Recorder and Common Serjeant received high salaries, and their time was not fully occupied; but if an arrangement between the Judges and the Assistant Judge of the Quarter Sessions for a better division of the business, and economising the time, could be made, it
 1278
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  thought it better that the Bill should be withdrawn. The Chairman of the Surrey Quarter Sessions, who had concurrent jurisdiction with the Central Criminal Court, tried almost as many cases as the Chairman of the Middlesex Court of Quarter Sessions, and yet he received no salary at all.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  hoped his hon. Friend would press the clause.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the Bill was presented to the House in an extremely crude form, and he moved that the chairman report progress.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the Bill proposed by the late Government on this subject was, at any rate, consistent and intelligible, but the present Bill did not seem to find favour with any section of the House. He, therefore, joined in the recommendation that it should be withdrawn.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  observed, that the measure had been deemed so far satisfactory that it had been passed with almost unanimous consent, and the present discussion arose upon a clause proposed by the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock, which did not deal precisely with the subject-matter of the Bill, but which would have a prospective effect. If the House thought fit virtually to repeal the Act of 1844, by which the salary of £1,200 a year was charged upon the Consolidated Fund, he could have no objection.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  thought the Bill ought to be withdrawn.
 MR. HENLEY , approving the first portion of the right hon. Gentleman's proposition, the object of which was to remove the charge of the salary from the Consolidated Fund, recommended him to withdraw the latter portion of the clause, and so confine the clause to the prospective repeal of the 10th clause of the Act.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  expressed his readiness to assent to the suggestion.
 MR. AYRTON  said, as the question was one of great importance, and could not be satisfactorily settled at that hour, he would press the Motion that the Chairman leave the Chair.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the House must either discuss the question or adjourn it.
 1279
 MR. WALTER  said, it was too late at that hour (past two o'clock) to discuss this question, and if the Motion were pressed he should move the adjournment of the debate. If the measure was to be referred to a Select Committee, it was important to determine what parts of it were to be made the subject of inquiry. He decidedly objected to all the clauses which would have a retrospective action.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, it would be in the power of the Select Committee to amend or even entirely to remodel the Bill.
 MR. JOHN LOCKE  condemned the measure as vicious in principle, and opposed its being sent to a Select Committee.
 MR. HENLEY  thought the question ought to be discussed by the House, before they were asked to refer it to a Committee.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  did not oppose the measure, but to think of discussing it at that hour was absurd.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  denounced the second clause of the Bill.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  assented to the adjournment of the Debate till tomorrow.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the reason why the Bill had been pressed on was, he believed, because the Commission would expire on the 1st of August, and if it was to be renewed, the Bill must be passed at once.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, that although his hon. Friend (Mr. H. Baillie) had concluded his remarks by asking a question of the Government, he had referred to a speech made by him in that House on a former occasion. As there ought to be no mistake as to the amount of force in this country and in India he was glad to avail himself of the present opportunity of entering into a short explanation, and of answering a letter which he had seen in that day's papers, which was written in so different a spirit from that which characterized many previous letters in the same journal, and which, though anonymous, were supposed to come from a source tolerably well-known, that he had the greatest possible pleasure in replying to it. The letter in question stated that he had made a great mistake in the statement he had made, and must have quoted from a return made at the War Office by clerks who did not know their business, and who had taken the number of men voted by Parliament instead of the number of men actually in this country. He begged to say that he had done no such thing. The document he had quoted from was the monthly returns made by the Horse Guards to the War Office, signed by the Adjutant General of the Forces, who was responsible for the accuracy of the figures he had explained to the House the condition of the British army on the 1st of June, 1859, and had read the line giving the total force at home. The only inaccuracy in the report of what he had said on a former evening was that he was represented as saying that he did not include the depots of regiments in India, whereas he had said nothing about them. What he said was that the numbers he had read did not include the Marines (one of the finest forces in the country), the pensioners, or the Irish constabulary. The return gave not only the exact number of men in the regiments, but also in the depots, and told where they were stationed. The number of men voted by Parliament last Session was, for the British establishment, 122,655; and for the Indian establishment, 106,902; making a total of 229,557. The number absolutely raised was 219,912. They were now distributed thus:—In India, 85,219; and there were ordered home, or on their return passage, 5,725. The latter were still on the Indian establishment and paid for by that establishment. There was at home, on the British establishment, 64,653; depots of regiments on the Indian
 1214 1215
 COLONEL HERBERT  said, the number given for the home forces included the officers, sergeants, and drummers, whereas it was supposed to represent only rank and file. If a deduction were made on that account from the number stated, it would leave only 96,517 men, which was a material difference from the figures stated by the right hon. and gallant General. But they ought to speak of efficient serviceable men; and therefore, if they made account of sick men, men waiting for their discharge, and also recruits, whether instructed or uninstructed, and the recruiting staff, the deduction, according to good authority, on that ground would be 20 per cent from the 96,517 men. The embodied militia of 25,000 men were to servo as a reserve; and he did not think it satisfactory that the available forces of the country were at so low an ebb. But it must be admitted, while the numbers given by the gallant Officer might be true, they were calculated to lead to misapprehension. In the same way, when our forces were in the Crimea, it was stated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer that at a particular time they amounted to 27,000 or 28,000 men. This statement was scouted by the public, and it was stated by a correspondent of a public journal that Lord Raglan's army did not contain more than 12,000 available men. Both statements were true; but the latter included only the efficient serviceable men, rank and file, who were fit for duty. The other number was the gross number of men of all ranks; and that was, no doubt, the case also with the numbers given by the hon. and gallant Officer. Statements of gross totals such as those made by the right hon. General the late Secretary of War were likely to lead to misapprehension in the public mind, because they always included a large number of men not available for service in the field.
 LORD STANLEY  said, that the subject of the organization of the Indian army was not one which could be properly discussed in a desultory conversation like the present; but as the question had been raised he wished to vindicate the Commissioners from the imputation of having fixed an arbitrary number for the European troops in India. That was a matter which obviously must depend upon both financial and political considerations, and the Commissioners carefully abstained from expressing a decided opinion on the subject, although they went the length of saying that the amount of European troops to be hereafter maintained in India should be greater than it was before the mutiny. He did not attach much importance to conjectural estimates in such a case; and the same observation applied to the proportion to be maintained between the European and Native forces. The solution of those questions would depend in some measure upon the success of the working of the military police now established on so large a scale in various parts in India, and he did not believe that either here or in Calcutta the Government could pronounce an accurate opinion upon them until they had seen how the police system worked over a considerable period of time. Upon only one point could he venture to record his opinion, and that was the question whether the European force in India should be a local force, or a part of the general army of the line. He believed that it was a matter not only of expediency, but almost of necessity, in the carrying on of the Indian Administration, that a considerable portion of the European army in India should remain as at present a local force. He should defend that view upon the ground of economy, because the expense of relief and transport would be saved; he should defend it also upon the ground of efficiency, because by that means we should have soldiers acclimatized and familiar with the country, for it was well known that a largo proportion of the mortality occurred in regiments newly arrived; and finally, he should support it on account of the local administration, because we could not expect officers of the line, who in India were mere birds of passage, to qualify themselves for Indian service in the same manner as those did to whom India was a homo for life. He did not indeed know how the civil and military administration of India was to be carried on if we
 1217
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  rose to call the attention of the House to the case of "Santos  v. Vict. Vict. 1219 ab initio
 MR. LINDSAY  pointed out the enormous number of officers on the active retired list. Out of 100 Admirals on that list there were 39 between 70 and 87 years of age. Why, he asked, should they continue to be rated as active? In like manner there were 315 Captains on the active list, of whom 41 were above 60, whilst only 90 were in active service. A similar proportion held good of the Commanders' list. So that we were retaining upon the active list a number of gentlemen who were not active or fit for service, and who themselves felt that they were not fit for service. Again, out of 2000 officers on the active list 214 were between the ages of 60 and 85, although, curious to say, upon the retired list there were not less than 290 below the age of 60. Now, the retired and reserved list was in a most unsatisfactory state. It cost the country upwards of £700,000 a year; and if it were unsatisfactory to the country it was not less so to the officers themselves—for they could not obtain active employment in consequence of their number being so great, and not obtaining active employment of course they could not get promotion. He knew that it was utterly impossible to employ them all in time of peace, and that it was necessary
 1224
 MR. LYGON  remarked, that certain words were introduced into the contract signed on the 6th of April for Dovor, as had been done also in the case of Galway, providing that the contractors should be paid out of money to be voted by Parliament; thus, in fact, rendering the contract subject to ratification by the House.
 MR. LYGON  wished to remove a misconception which appeared in the speeches of the hon. and gallant Member for Christchurch (Admiral Walcott), and the right
 1239
 ADMIRAL DUNCOMBE  said, it had been currently stated that the officers who were consulted by the late First Lord in this matter, one and all disapproved of the scheme. Surely, if such men as Lord Dundonald, Sir George Seymour, and others disapproved of the scheme, it could not be said to bear the construction just put upon it by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Tewkesbury (Mr. Lygon).
 ADMIRAL DUNCOMBE  had referred to the old flag officers, all of whom objected to it.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he wished to direct the attention of the Committee to the scale of payment of seamen in the navy. He would be the last to oppose unnecessarily any increase of that pay, for he had been
 1241 1242
 GENERAL PEEL : So far from having anything to complain of in the manner in which my right hon. Friend has introduced these Estimates, I have only to thank him for the very complimentary manner in which he spoke of my services in the War Department; and I should not have had a word to say, but that these Supplementary Estimates are almost precisely those which it would have been my duty to propose to the House had I remained in office. These Supplementary Estimates do not arise from any increase in the original Estimates which I had the honour of submitting at the early part of the year, but they are rendered necessary by the circumstances which have arisen since the original estimates were framed, and it is now in the power of the Committee, if they do not approve of the items, to disallow them. If, for instance, they do not think it necessary that the embodied militia should be retained, they have only to strike out that item, and the proposal will fall to the ground. I thought it was absolutely necessary to retain them, and I am glad to see the present Government are of the same opinion. I perfectly agree with my right hon. Friend that the embodied militia, as a general principle, ought to be counted only as part of our reserve; but, of course, they will be perfectly useless even' in that capacity, unless they are well drilled, and I think it would be of great advantage if arrangements were made by which a large portion should be embodied by turns, so that every regiment may get a year's training in every five years. In that way you would render them much more efficient
 1262 1263
 SIR FREDERICK SMITH  said, the clothing and accoutrements in the French service were not made by each man for himself, but a company in each Regiment was
 1266
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, there was a chorus of compliments to one another from Under Secretaries on the perfect state of defence and the perfect army which they asserted we possessed; but if they mixed, as he did, with military men, they would have a very different opinion. Every man would allow, at least in theory, that if we were to have an army we ought to have it at the least possible expense. But we paid more for our 110,000 men than any nation in the world for its whole military force, and far more than was necessary. The system of administration was faulty. Generally men were appointed to preside over the war departments who were not military men and who knew nothing about the army. They had lately had a general officer as Secretary for War, and praise was justly due to that gallant Gentleman; but if he possessed twice the powers of mind and twice the physical powers which he did he would defy him to perform all the duties which devolved upon him. He could not be responsible for half that was to be done. The Ordnance and half-a-dozen offices had been abolished, an admirable system had been broken up; it had not been replaced by any system whatever; a civilian, ignorant of military matters, was placed at the head of this confused and over-loaded Department, and the persons who assisted the Secretary knew nothing of soldiers' wants and requirements. There was a statement of the force on paper which every military man knew was not available. There was a great difference between the number of men on the muster roll and the number of men who could take the field. He believed that with all our expenditure of £10,000,000 or £11,000,000, it would be impossible to concentrate on any part of the island more than 30,000 men in case of emergency. He also thought it wrong that the military departments, beyond a limited extent, should become manufacturers. The system of small manufactories might be justified, but large es-
 1268
 COLONEL GILPIN  said, he willingly bore testimony to the success by which the erection of a camp at Aldershot had been attended—a success which was, he must say, to a great extent attributable to the gallant officer who filled the post of commandant, notwithstanding that observations depreciatory of his merits had found their way into the public prints. It was owing to the exertions of that gallant officer that the raw levies which had been sent to the camp had been so soon transformed into well disciplined soldiers, and that the review which had taken place there a few days ago was as perfect as anything of the kind could be expected to he. His object in rising, however, was not so much to bear testimony to the success of Aldershot as to put a question to the Government with respect to the disallowance of forage to a
 1270 d. d. d.
 MAJOR STUART  complained of the inadequate accommodation of the barracks at Dovor and the want of a school-house there?
 GENERAL PEEL  hoped he would be allowed to answer the question put by the hon. and gallant Member for Bedfordshire (Colonel Gilpin) with respect to the forage for horses. There was 1 s. d. d. s. s. d. s. d. d. s. d.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  declared, that to neglect old officers was not calculated to encourage the present or provide for the future, and that the scheme of the late First Lord of the Admiralty had given infinite pain to many old and gallant officers who were the pride and ornament of the navy, and whom every young officer might look up to as an example. The hon. Member for Tewkesbury, and the late First Lord of the Admiralty, had no fair knowledge of the profession, or they would not in intention have adopted any such system. True it was they had denied by their speeches any such infliction, but, nevertheless, by some unfortunate misunderstanding, it had been created, and the late First Lord must have been sensible this had been produced, because he admitted he had modified his first proposition. Naval officers should be encouraged to improve themselves in the various branches of their profession, and they should be made to feel that this was the only road to employment, to promotion, and honours. In the case of the gunnery officers, however, no such encouragement was held out, and he thought their case was really deserving of consideration.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, if the country and the House would only exercise a little patience these grey-headed officers would soon disappear from the reach of their bounty, or the hearing of their regrets; the broken spirit and the wounded heart will be beyond recall. The House had not, however, been made acquainted with the circumstance under which the large list had been produced. It owed its origin to the war, which lasted from 1792 to 1815, during which we had at one time nigh 1,000 pendants flying. There were at the same time no less than 147,000 seamen and marines in the service—we were at war with almost the whole world. Russia, Denmark, Holland, France, Spain, Turkey and lastly the United States of America; and it was absolutely necessary to have fleets blockading the ports of the enemy, and protecting the commerce of the country. The number of officers was consequently very large, and that was the cause, as he had always said, of the number of officers on those lists. If an actuary were applied to, he would tell them that officers of the navy did not live longer than other men; but the more favourable state of the public health of late years accounted for
 1235 1236
 GENERAL UPTON  said, he understood the late Secretary for War to recommend that the regiments of militia should be embodied for one year, and that the training for twenty-one days should be dispensed with. His opinion was that no regiment of militia should be embodied for a less period than two years, and that the period of training of the disembodied mili-
 1267
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : At this late hour of the night I think that the Committee will be of opinion that the more I condense my statement in moving the Army Estimates the better it will be. There is the less necessity for my going into much detail because the greater part of the effective Votes for the army were taken in the last Session of Parliament. Only one Vote was taken on account, and only the non-effective ones remained to be voted. After the very frequent discussions which we have had during the last two or three days upon the subject of the force now in England I need not enter into particulars upon that question. My gallant Friend who preceded me in office (General Peel) has already in the course of the evening explained the exact amount of the military force in Great Britain, and my right hon. Friend has accurately stated that we have now in England, if we include the Indian depots, 110,000 men of all ranks. Of that number 23,000 men belong to the embodied militia. The hon. Member for Invernessshire (Mr. Baillie) objects that the militia ought not to form part of the permanent and first force of England; it was properly a reserve force; and that if it were necessary to make use of that reserve in time of peace we should have nothing to fall back upon in time of war. I
 1254 1255 1256 1257 1258 1259 1260 1261
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that the scheme, if carried out, would be for the benefit of barrackmasters. They would be divided into classes, and would be promoted from one to another. The whole subject had received great attention from his predecessor in office, and he would announce the decision of the Government in a few days.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, the gallant Officer opposite (Colonel Herbert), who observed that the whole of the force which the War Department enumerated as being in England was not directly available. He was ready to admit there was some truth in that statement, and that the men composing depots could not be reckoned on the same footing of efficiency as trained men serving in battalions of the line. As
 1273 1274
 LORD ADOLPHUS VANE-TEMPEST , in rising to ask the Question of which he had given notice, respecting the claims to half-pay of certain officers of the Land Transport Corps, expressed his acknowledgments both to the gallant General lately at the head of the War Department, and to the right hon. Gentleman now occupying that post, for the courtesy which he had invariably experienced in his applications on this subject. The Secretary of State for War, he perceived, was absent, but possibly some Gentleman on the Treasury bench would be able to furnish him with the information he desired, namely, whether any, and if so what, decision had been come to by the Treasury on the subject of carrying out the recommendations of the Committee of last Session on the claims of the Land Transport Corps, with reference to granting permanent half-pay to that class of officers who entered the corps from the militia and civil employ.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, it was the intention of the Government to move the packet Vote, and it would then be open to any hon. Gentleman to move that the whole of that Vote, or any portion of it, should be struck out. He must say he thought that would be the proper course; and he thought it would be better that the right hon. Gentleman should reserve any observations with that object till the House was in Committee. In reply to the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir Henry Willoughby) he might state that Vote No. 9, which had been alluded to, referred merely to the wages of artificers abroad, as to which he did not think there would be any question. With reference to the others he would say that it was the earnest desire of the present Board of Admiralty to give every information in their power, and in particular to go very narrowly into the question of shipbuilding. He thought he had already given an earnest of his intention in that respect by laying before the House a statement of the tonnage built in each year. The hon. Baronet would see that this had enabled him to enter more largely into this expenditure than he had yet been able to do; and he should be very glad, if the present Government remained in office till next year, that something
 1222
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he had always understood that it was the custom of the House to allow the mover of a Vote an opportunity of explaining it; but the hon. Gentleman was so anxious to speak that he had debarred him from that chance. He was now enabled to give an explanation of this Vote, which he was unable to do on Friday. At that time the Order in Council was not issued, and he preferred to wait until he was in a position to propose this Estimate. He wished to repeat the opinion he had before expressed, that nothing but the most urgent necessity could justify a recourse to bounties, especially to bounties of so large an amount as that lately offered. A system of bounties might be compared to those opium draughts which were common in Eastern countries: each dose must be stronger than the former. In like manner, if our seamen were taught to expect that at the least cloud in the west, or approach to a political difficulty, a bounty would be offered, the Admiralty would never be able to get a seaman without a bounty. The wisdom of giving a bounty ought therefore to be very carefully considered by any Government before they proposed it, and the bounty ought never, in his opinion, to be adopted without the sanction of the House of Commons. The bounty offered by the late Government had certainly rapidly increased our force of seamen. But another question then arose. The Government had to consider the position of those seamen who had been serving their country faithfully, who had learnt in the Royal Navy the whole of the duties of a seaman, and who had come to be efficient men-of-war's-men. Now extending a portion of this gratuity to men who had five years to serve or who were willing to continue in the service five years longer was a step he was perfectly prepared to defend. The gratuity proposed to be given to each such man was £5, or one half the bounty offered by the late Board to new entries. He did not mean to say that those men had any claim to any gratuity whatever; but he wished to bring this matter home to his right hon.
 1243 1244
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he had understood the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Pakington) to say, on the subject of the present rate of promotion, that he had only during one year the opportunity of promoting two commanders to be captains, and five lieutenants to be commanders. It was therefore, but fair, that he (Lord C. Paget) should state what the promotions in the year were during the year 1858; when the right hon. Gentleman was in office, there were nine admirals made from captains, twenty-two captains made from commanders, sixty-two commanders made from lieutenants, and fifty-one lieutenants made from mates. He (Lord C. Paget) did not say that even that was sufficient promotion, but it made up a very different figure from that which the right hon. Gentleman put before the Committee.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  agreed in thinking it very inconvenient that a plan which was not before the House should form the subject of discussion. He thought, however, the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir John Pakington) had very considerably understated the effect of the plan of retirement proposed in the "confidential" document. He should certainly disapprove of any plan by which compulsory retirement at the age of sixty years would be enforced. If such a regulation had been in force, the country would have been deprived of the eminent services of the late Lord Lyons. There had certainly been a difficulty with regard to the tardy promotion of post captains to the higher rank; Lord Lyons himself had continued for thirty-six years in the rank of post captain, and he doubted not that there were other distinguished officers who had the same story to tell. But regulations had been adopted to meet this admitted evil shortly before he himself had quitted the Admiralty, and the beneficial effects of these, by which captains would become admirals, generally speaking, in less than twenty years, were only now beginning to be felt. He could not therefore agree with the right hon. Gentleman when he spoke of the utter stagnation of the service as regarded promotion; and he believed that since Lord Howe's time there had never been, comparatively speaking, so many young admirals in the service as at present. At the period when he succeeded to the office of First Lord of the Admiralty there were only nine admirals under sixty years of age, and from a Return which he held in his hand there were now upwards of thirty under that age upon the active list. This was certainly effected by the system of retirement to which he had alluded. He certainly did not believe that retirement by age would be an improvement of the present system. He thought every one would admit that Lord Lyons was one of the most efficient officers we had had for many years, and yet Lord Lyons would have been disqualified years ago if retirement at the age of sixty had been compulsory, for Lord Lyons, he believed, was seventy when he died. [Admiral Walcott: Sixty-eight.] He did not say that every man above or below sixty would be able to command a fleet, but he thought it would be a great mistake to debar themselves of the services of such a man as Lord Lyons because he was above sixty years of age. He said this without
 1234
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that as he supposed it was the wish of the House to proceed with the business on the paper as speedily as possible, he would not follow the two hon. Gentlemen through many of the topics on which they had touched. He freely acknowledged the intimate connection between Indian finance and the all important question of the amount of military force which it was necessary to maintain in India. No doubt the strength of that force would require to be indefinitely increased if the Government of that country were to be conducted without regard to the feelings and sentiments of its people; but if India were governed properly, he believed the amount of European and Native troops which it would be requisite to keep up would not exceed that which the resources of the country could easily bear. With regard to the Report of the Commission on the organization of the Indian army, the present Government had hardly had sufficient time yet to consider hat question. Indeed, looking at the importance and difficulty of this subject, he was not surprised that the noble Lord who preceded him in his present office, with all his diligence and power of work, had not been able to bring into a more forward state the measures which were necessary on this subject. The question really required the greatest attention and care, nor could it be decided without information which was not enjoyed here. Opinions formed on the spot on such a matter must obviously be far more valuable than any that could be formed in this country. Moreover, events might at any time happen in India which would materially affect this question. While, as the hon. Gentleman had admitted, he had hardly had time since he acceded to office even to read all the papers relating to this subject, he could assure him that it would receive from him the most careful and impartial consideration, with a view to its being decided at the earliest practicable period; but he was wholly unable to mention the precise time when he would be able to make the statement required of him.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that with regard to the latter part of the hon. Gentleman's Question he had laid upon the table within the last quarter of an hour the last despatches which he had received from India; and, with regard to the former part of the Question, he could not at present name the day on which he should be prepared to bring forward the subject of Indian Finance, as the general financial statement of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer must take precedence; when his right hon. Friend had made his statement, he (Sir Charles Wood) would make his statement on Indian finance at the earliest possible moment.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that Report from India had been received upon compensation for losses incurred during
 1201
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether any information has reached Her Majesty's Government to the effect that more than two-thirds of the provincial and local Standards of Weights and Measures have been used more than twenty years without reverification, and that the same are defective and unjust, and cannot be relied on as tests of accuracy; that such Standards nevertheless furnish the legal means and evidence by which the integrity and accuracy of the Weights and Measures used by the tradesmen for commercial purposes are ascertained and tested; that legal convictions take place and penalties are enforced for non-conformity to such Standards; and, if so, whether Her Majesty's Ministers intend to take any steps for the prevention of so great an injustice.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he wished to make a few observations in reference to the Report of the Commission appointed to inquire into the Military Organization of our Indian Empire. He was aware that Her Majesty's Ministers, having been but a short time in office, had not, perhaps, had leisure to consider the subject; but, inasmuch as this was a question which involved not only the efficiency of Her Majesty's army in India, but also the efficiency of Her Majesty's army in this country, it was a question which ought to receive the attention and most careful consideration of that House, and in the present state of political affairs a settlement of it ought not to be much longer delayed. Now, in the Report of this Commission the opinion was expressed—and he believed it to have been the unanimous opinion of all the Members of the Commission—that henceforth an army of not less than 80,000 men should be permanently maintained in our Indian empire. He knew not, of course, what might be the opinion of Her Majesty's Ministers on this subject, but it would be very easy for that House to vote that number of men, or any number of men, because the House would not be called upon to pay them; but it would not be so easy to raise the men, more especially in time of war; and he very much feared that the Commission, in coming to this conclusion, had been influenced rather by what they conceived to be the necessities of our Indian empire, without a just appreciation of the wants and necessities of this country; now, this last consi-
 1205 1206 1207 1208 1209
 MR. RICH  said, he had given a notice on Monday night that he should move the postponement of any Vote which would have the effect of giving a Parliamentary affirmation to the contract which had been entered into on the 26th of April with regard to the transmission of mails from Dovor. By some accident the Notice which he had given did not appear upon the paper; but he wished to ask his noble Friend the Secretary to the Admiralty whether, considering that the question of the Dovor contract had already been made the subject of discussion in that House, and bearing in mind the fact that it was included in the scope of the reference to the Select Committee—which, he might observe, he could have wished had been composed of persons who would be more disposed to go independently into the matter;—remembering, moreover, that in consequence of a paragraph in the Dovor election petition, the whole question of this contract would have to be examined into upon oath—he put it to his noble Friend whether he did not think that a discussion with reference to the fulfilment of such contract would be premature. He trusted therefore that no such Vote would be proposed to-night, nor indeed at all at present. In the event of its being understood that no such Vote would be gone into, he was quite satisfied to let the matter rest for the present; but it would otherwise be his duty to enter into a full statement of what appeared to him to be the merits and demerits of that contract.
 MR. WILSON  explained, in reference to the statement of the hon. Member for Tewkesbury (Mr. Lygon), that the stipulation that the contracts should be paid out of money voted by Parliament was not new. Why, from what fund could they be paid, except money voted by Parliament? The words said to be a new introduction, and to involve a new principle of Parliamentary revision, had been in use, at all events, since 1854, and were mere surplusage, because the contracts could not be paid out of money unless it was money voted by Parliament. He did not object to the use of the words, but they should not be set up as proof of extraordinary vigilance. If the words had been "subject to the approval of Parliament" the case would have Been very different.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he wished to put again a question to the Secretary of State fur India which he had asked him a few nights ago, namely, whether he is able to inform the House when he will bring forward the question of Indian Finance, and whether he has any objection to lay upon the Table the latest despatches which he has received from India on that subject? The noble Lord (Lord Stanley), who filled the office before the right hon. Baronet, had followed that course, and the House had been given to understand that it would, be followed out in future.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the hon. Member could not read a letter relating to a former debate.
 MR. LANIGAN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War when the arrangement for improving the condition of Barrackmasters will be carried into effect?
 MR. ROEBUCK  wished again to warn the House of the danger into which they were likely to fall. Upon the other side of the Atlantic there was a Congress, and also a place called a "Lobby," and all transactions concluded in the Congress were first decided in the "Lobby." If they introduced into that House the principle of canvassing every act of the Government, not merely as to their responsibility, but deciding upon the actual contracts themselves, they would soon bring in a "Lobby," here, and all the chicanery and corruption that now distinguished the "Lobby" of Congress. Even upon the present occasion he was told that the objections to the particular contracts were by persons who expected to derive a benefit if those contracts were broken; that there were hon. Gentlemen in that House who were directors of the company which was calling upon the House to dispute those contracts.
 CAPTAIN LEICESTER VERNON  said, he wished to draw attention to one great fact—that they were about to vote £12,000,000 upon the Army Estimates, and out of that large sum only £3,500,000 went towards the fighting men. The whole of the rest went to the Staff and such like, and thus the mere fighting men only received l–27th of the whole. The home Staff cost £131,951; the foreign Staff, £180,326; the total Staff, £312,287. The department of the Secretary of Warcost £101,000; of the Commander-in-Chief, £185,000. The supplemental Staff cost £4,241 for services which could be just as well performed by the district Staff. He could point out a good many Staff appointments that were not very useful, and he trusted that the Secretary for War would look into this subject, and endeavour to reduce the enormous expenses of the Staff of the army.
 MR. LAING  stated that the Treasury entertained no objection to the recommendations of the Select Committee being carried out, providing that the Secretary of State for War was favourable to such a course.
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, that as the contract had been signed, he thought there would be a legal claim upon the Government. However, as it seemed to be the wish of the House that this portion of the Vote should be omitted, they would offer no opposition to the postponement.
 MR. WHITBREAD  asked the House to consider, as the right hon. Baronet said the present Government had adopted an inconvenient precedent, whether it was not the late Government who had set the example of inconvenient precedents by giving a bounty to seamen on enlisting? Could any one hope that henceforward men would readily engage in the service without a similar inducement? The right hon. Baronet referred to the success of the bounty in obtaining a certain number of men, and said that a great national object was to be gained by it. So likewise it might be said of the recent act of the present Government, that a great national object was to be gained by it; and he thought that object would be accomplished by the prevention of any discontent arising among the seamen, as well as in securing the services of the flower of the fleet for many years to come. He believed, notwithstanding what had fallen from an hon. Member, that this gratuity would satisfy the seamen, for they knew that they had no legal claim to it, and they would be pleased and gratified by having it offered to them on a principle of justice. It was maintained by the right hon. Baronet that, as no discontent had been heard of hitherto, none was ever likely to arise, even if this gratuity had not been offered; but discontent did not arise in a moment. The men whom this question affected lived not like other people in the midst of society composed of all sorts of professions, but entirely in the company of persons like themselves. All their interests and feelings ran in one way; and was it not certain, when the propriety
 1247
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he wished to in-
 1202
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he thought a continuance Bill for one year would be sufficient; so that the subject might be discussed next year.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he wished to inquire whether it is intended to proceed with this Bill without giving an opportunity of discussing it? The Bill had only been in-
 1204
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he rose to ask whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer can now fix the day upon which he will make his financial statement?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I cannot, I am afraid, give an absolute answer to the question of the hon. Gentleman, as it is uncertain what time will be occupied by the Naval and Military Estimates; but if those Estimates should happily be concluded by to-morrow night—and perhaps the House will be disposed to sit a little later than usual in order to get through—in that case I will make the financial statement on Monday.
 MR. MONSELL  thought the observations of his hon. and Gallant Friend (Colonel Dunne) must apply to the state of things which prevailed when he had been
 1269
 COLONEL SYKES  thought it was no object of the House to raise any discussion now on the Indian army, but only to elicit an assurance from the Government that the subject would be brought before the House. Such an assurance he received in February last, and he was perfectly satisfied that the assurance would be fulfilled. When it was so brought he would gladly state the result of his experience and in the meanwhile he would merely make one remark upon the amount of the military force to be maintained in India. He quite agreed that the number of European troops must depend upon the manner in which we governed India, and the manner in which the people were satisfied with our government. Before the mutiny broke out we had 45,000 European troops there, and the revenues of India were barely sufficient to pay that number. What would the House say to the payment of 131,000 European troops including the 20,000 at the depots in England? He was convinced that it was utterly impossible for the revenues of India to pay for more than 50,000 European troops, and he entreated the House to consider this well before they sanctioned the continued employment in India of such an overwhelming and unnecessary force. He was satisfied that 50,000 European soldiers would be quite sufficient for carrying on good government and ensuring the safety of the country.
 MR. W. VANSITTART  said, that he could not agree with his hon. Friend that this country was unable to maintain 80,000 European troops in India. We had already 85,000 men there, independently of the 25,000 which were maintained by the old East India Company, He had read with much interest the Report of the Commissioners on this subject, which he ventured to say was second to none in importance not only as regarded the power and welfare of India, but of the whole British empire. Happily, the Commissioners were unanimous on one point—namely, that India would require the presence of a large European force, not less than 80,000 men; 50,000 for Bengal, including the Punjab, and 15,000 for each of the minor Presidencies of Madras and Bombay. But there was a great diversity of opinion as to whether this force should be a local force, or whether it should form an integral portion of the British army, to be supplied in regular routine from the line. On carefully going through the evidence submitted to the Commissioners, he was of opinion that the force should be composed partly of troops of the line, taking India as part of the regular tour of service, and partly of troops raised for service in India only. There was no doubt that any one who had been in India could not
 1210 "With regard to Queen's troops no change will be made. With regard to the others, they will be transferred to the Crown from the service of the Company, subject to the same conditions of service as those under which they were enlisted; and, if they dislike that change, I think, in common justice, they will he entitled to their discharge." [3  Hansard 1211 1212
 MR. W. VANSITTART  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for India, whether the Report from the Government of India respecting compensation for losses sustained during the late mutiny has been received; and, if so, whether it is his intention to lay such Report on the table of this House?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that some of the lower grades of officers in the navy were in a very unsatisfactory state, the late First Lord having stated that mates and midshipmen were 400 short of the required number. On the other hand, there was quite a redundancy of Admirals. We had not less than 341 Admirals, of whom only eleven were employed in the fleet and three in the dockyards, making together fourteen. In his opinion the system of increasing the number of Admirals, which had been going on so long, ought to receive a check. It did not look well, to say the least of it, to have thirty times as many Admirals as were wanted, whilst they were short of the
 1225
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  explained, that though the noble Lord the Secretary of the Admiralty commanded the  Princess Royal
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER : Not all of them. Will the right hon. Baronet allow me to produce the rest of the letters?
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER : The right hon. Baronet says I took credit for all that has been done for the sailor during the last thirty years, I did no such thing. I say so distinctly. It is untrue. [ Cries of 1253
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  approved of the bounty which had been given, inasmuch as it had obtained for the fleet a considerable number of men; and what could the country have done without them? He would remind the hon. Gentleman the Member for Sunderland, who so much disapproved of the bounty, that some years ago, when our fleet was in danger from the superiority of the French fleet in the Mediterranean, we had a fleet lying at Spithead for which the Admiralty could not procure seamen. Now by means of the bounty, we had got 6,000 out of 8,000 men voted. Was that nothing? The noble Lord said that ameliorations had taken place in the service. He knew that that was the case, but he did not thank the Admiralty for it, because, had it not been for the Motions brought forward by himself and others none of these ameliorations would have taken place. Corporal punishment had been alluded to; but he did not think that the men generally were averse to it, as they knew that the discipline of the navy could not be carried on without it. He should like, however, to see the men brought to a court-martial before punishment was inflicted. Such a course would give great satisfaction to the seamen, and would not destroy the discipline of the navy one iota. He gave the late First Lord of the Admiralty the greatest credit for offering the bounty, and he did not see that the present Government had a right to find fault with that measure, since it had proved successful. He believed the men would feel grateful for the gratuity granted to them. They knew that they were not legally entitled to it, and they would receive it all the more gratefully on that account.
 1248
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, it could not be wondered at if, after a war of nearly forty years, the list of Admirals was very large. In fact, it could not be helped, though he admitted that the promotions had been too extensive. The reason of the list being in its present state was that successive Lords of the Admiralty had failed to carry out the intentions of Lord Melville. From 1815 to 1830 Lord Melville allowed the promotion to go on just in the same way as in time of war. It was evident, therefore, that there could have been no reduction in the list, and men did not die off so fast during peace as during war. But in 1830 Lord Melville, seeing the error he bad committed in making promotions on that scale, issued a Minute of the Admiralty restricting promotions to one in three. From 1830 to 1846, a period of sixteen years, there were various First Lords of the Admiralty, and one succeeded another with tolerable rapidity. The consequence was that the Minute of Lord Melville was ignored. From February, 1830 to September, 1846, 245 flag officers and 316 captains died; and there were altogether 909 removals from the list by death and promotion; but whilst, according to Lord Melville's Minute, the promotions ought to have been only one in three; instead of one promotion in three, almost as many were promoted as were removed. The case was just the same with the commanders and lieutenants. But the lists of admirals, captains, commanders, and lieutenants were now fixed, and that not too high, and he believed that in a short time they would be all reduced to a proper level. The evils of the system of promotion, from the age of the officers, became very great, and he suggested to the late Sir Robert Peel, who was then in office, a plan for removing a certain number of officers from the top of the list with their own consent. Some years afterwards Sir Robert Peel consented to give a retirement to a certain number of captains, who were allowed to take the rank of admirals at 60 years of age, and if that arrangement had not been interfered with the list would not have been in its present state. But succeeding Lords of the Admiralty had allowed junior officers to retire, and so the alteration had failed of its intention. They could not prevent officers from getting old and he was not prepared to deal with them in such a way as that they should feel hurt
 1226
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, he had hoped that after his explanation the right hon. Baronet would not again have found fault with him for having mentioned his plan of retirement. That plan was not furnished to him confidentially, and he appealed to the House to say whether a document which was handed round to almost every old Admiral resident in London, and which formed the subject of a petition to Her Majesty, could properly be called confidential. It was true that the petition to which he referred was not presented to the Queen, but the reason of that was that the right hon. Baronet left office before the requisite arrangements could be completed. The petition, however, was signed by himself and several other admirals, and one of those who attached their names to it took the liberty of tolling the right hon. Baronet that an experience of fifteen months at the head of the Admiralty did not seem to have taught him to respect the feelings of naval officers. It would be perfectly fair to offer compensation to the lower ranks of officers for voluntary retirement; but to force old officers to retire from the service was degrading; and he could never forget that the death of his own father, a captain in the navy, who had not had an opportunity of serving, was caused by his being passed over in promotion. He never held up his head after it. The truth was that the right hon. Baronet did not know, and never would know, what the feelings of
 1232
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, he did not know how the plan stood now: his observations applied to the plan as it stood when he had cognizance of it.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he fully concurred with the noble Lord (Lord Stanley) that it was indispensable to have a considerable local European force in India—especially of artillery—as it was most necessary that the army should become accustomed to the feelings and habits of the Natives.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that he quite agreed with the hon. and gallant Member in the propriety of encouraging good and efficient men. In the year 1848 the average age of those officers whose names stood upon the admirals' list was seventy, and that there were only six of them whose age was under sixty, while there were at the present moment thirty- one admirals who were below that age. The complaint now was that we had too many young admirals rather than too many old ones on the list. The consequence of the state of things which formerly prevailed was that when he, being then at the head of the Admiralty, communicated with two gallant admirals, with the view of sending them out to take command of the East Indies, the answer he received was that they were too old to perform the service which was required at their hands, and he was eventually obliged to appoint an officer to the command whose age was seventy-two years. There were
 1237
 SIR FRANCIS BARING , said, he had the himself more than once pressed upon noble Lord the propriety of postponing that part of the packet Vote which related to the contract at Dovor. There had been a Committee appointed to consider the whole question of postal contracts, including that recently made at Dovor. He would not say whether there were any grounds for the rumours that were afloat, but there certainly was an idea prevalent that the contract required looking into. He would urge upon his noble Friend that the House should not be called upon, by voting money, to give a sanction to that contract before the Committee recently appointed had reported.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  thought it was to be regretted that we lost many of our soldiers just at the time that they had become efficient, and suggested that with the view of inducing the ten years' service men to remain in the army a small addition should be made to their pay. Those soldiers were the most healthy who were the most employed in garrison, and less crime was committed in those garrisons in which the men were well employed than in those in which they were idle. In the barracks in France the men themselves made almost every article of clothing that they required. Why could not the men in our own barracks be similarly employed? In every French company so many men were employed to cook, others to purchase food or other duties. The French soldier was taught to do everything for himself. Why should not our men be taught to do the same as far as practicable?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  expressed a hope that the Navy Estimates might in future be introduced in a more intelligible form. In Votes 8, 9, and 10, involving an expenditure of £3,247,000, the items were lumped together in large sums which made it impossible to know how the money was really expended, and which were made ridiculous by the introduction, at intervals, of precise expenditure on such an insignificant object as a mud-punt. The country would have no objection to pay whatever amount was requisite for the
 1221
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, it would be found on looking at the matter from a practical point of view that the number of junior officers was too small for the service, How was that difficulty best to be got over? The hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Lindsay) had recommended that the officers of the superior class of merchants' ships should be made available for the navy; but he should remind the Committee that it would not be easy to secure the services of such men. For his own part, he should not, when he was in the East India Company's service, have thought of entering the navy, in as much as the former service was much preferable on the score of pay, and in con-
 1238
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : The gallant Admiral has already taken that liberty by producing my private letters without my consent.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Sir, I am very unwilling to prolong this discussion, and it is desirable that we should get through the Navy Estimates as soon as possible; but like the hon. and gallant Admiral who has just sat down, I have for a long period taken a deep interest in the question of the manning of the navy, and am therefore desirous of saying a very few words. I will not discuss questions that are not before the Committee—questions of peace or war, and of the state of Europe, the subject of corporal punishment, and other topics that have been introduced. The question of a gratuity consequent on the bounty that has been granted is the matter now in hand, and to that I shall address a few observations. On a former occasion I expressed at some length my decided opinion against a bounty in time of peace. I then stated my objection to it in detail, and to those objections I still adhere. I think they are conclusive against the precedent set for the first time by the late Board of Admiralty of offering a bounty in time of peace. I think that bounty ought to be the last resource of a Government in the last extremity of war, or when war is imminently pending, and I fear that to have had resort to this last resource now will be found to have established a precedent that will add to our diffi-
 1249 1250
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : At the end of ten years he will have received £40 I admit; but still, when one man receives £10 in hand and clothes worth £6, and another gets £40 in small sums at the expiration of ten years, I appeal to the House whether the immediate effect is not likely to be discontent? Then the right hon. Gentleman says, no demand has been made for this gratuity. But can any doctrine be more dangerous than that? Why wait for demands? What was the cause of the mutiny at the Nore? The men made demands, but no attention was paid to them till those demands assumed a most dangerous and formidable shape; and then concessions were made in a manner most degrading to the State, and that produced no salutary effect. It is said this is great generosity on the part of the State. Let there be such generosity. I think the wisest possible course at the present moment is to treat our sailors with kindness, generosity, and due consideration. The hon. and gallant Admiral (Sir Charles Napier) takes to himself exclusively the merit of everything that has been done in favour of the sailor for the last thirty years; but, setting aside that claim, it has been the object of Governments for the last thirty years to improve the condition of our sailors, and the concessions of the late Government, founded as they were upon justice, seem to me to have been based upon sound policy. I think the question is not one of generosity, of discontent, or contentment, but of justice. The hon. and gallant Admiral referred to a measure which I introduced in 1832, when I had the advantage of the advice of the late Sir Thomas Hardy, who was better acquainted with the feelings, the habits, and the prejudices of sailors, and the motives by which they are actuated, than any officer I have
 1251 1252 St. Jean d'Acre Princess Royal
 Sir JAMES GRAHAM : He will, at the end of ten years, have received an equivalent; but it will be doled out to him in small driblets, at each monthly pay; while the non-continuous man gets £10 in his hand and £6 worth in clothes.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : The non-continuance man will receive £40.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : The continuous-service man has more than an equivalent for the bounty.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  had, in his previous observations referred to Board promotions only, and not to promotions from the retired list; and he repeated that in the first twelve months that he was at the Amiralty, he had only made two commanders and five lieutenants.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was sorry to have to state that what had fallen from the noble Lord had not affected in the least degree the opinion he had expressed upon a former evening. He had heard nothing which he could call a reason for the extraordinary course proposed, which was a deviation from all precedent in the past, and establishing an embarrassing and inconvenient example for the future. He could only hope that by the immediate adoption of a better system of reserves we might escape being placed in the critical position in which the late Government were placed when they were compelled to resort to the system of a bounty. The hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Lindsay) and the noble Lord had both touched upon the general policy of a bounty; but that question was not now before the Committee, and, indeed, it was settled last week, when the House voted the sum necessary for that bounty. All he would say as to the general policy of the bounty was, that a great national object was at stake, and that object had been accomplished by it. The question before the Committee was a different one—whether, because Parliament had voted £31,000 to get seamen, it was right to spend £100,000 more in malting a voluntary gift to men who were already in the navy. He thought nothing could justify such wanton expenditure but the most urgent necessity. If any complaints had been made, if there had been any great exhibition of dissatisfaction in the fleet, that might have been an excuse for such a proposal, but nothing of the kind existed upon the noble Lord's own admission. The whole case of the Government turned on the possibility that there might be dissatisfaction amongst those men. He had said the other evening that if there were discontent upon that ground, it was a case in which the Government were bound for high reasons of high policy to take a bold attitude and declare the demand unreasonable. But, to the honour of the sailors it must be said, they manifestly saw the unreasonableness of the demand. The Committee must remember
 1245 1246
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the observations of the hon. and gallant Admiral (Admiral Duncombe), showed the extreme inconvenience of discussing a matter that was not actually before the House. From what had fallen from the hon. and gallant Of beer, it was evident that he did not hear the fieginning of the discussion. [Admiral DUN
 1240
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that the observations of the hon. and gallant Admiral afforded an additional exemplification of the inconvenience of discussing a plan the details of which were not before the House. Not one of these observations applied to the plan as it at present stood. The hon. and gallant Admiral complained of the cruelty of compelling old and distinguished officers to retire. Perhaps the House would be surprised to hear that his (Sir John Pakington's) plan did not compel any flag-officer to retire. It applied to officers in junior ranks, but it did not deprive any flag-officer of any privilege that he now possessed.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he thought it would be admitted by every one that the Question which had been touched upon by the Members who had spoken since this Vote was put into the hands of the Chairman was one of the most important and difficult connected with the whole question of the efficiency of the naval service: and he could not allow the Vote to pass without expressing his anxious hope that the new Board of Admiralty would take into their consideration the present stagnation of promotion in the naval service, and that they will deal boldly and courageously with the subject. He thought he might venture to say that his eighteen months' experience in office had shown him that it was absolutely essential to the maintenance of efficiency in the Royal Navy that some measure comprising a comprehensive plan of retirement should be carried; but he had also seen enough to be satisfied that nothing could be done unless the Minister who attempted, to deal with the subject was prepared to approach it in a bold and determined spirit, not to be deterred by slight difficulties from effecting his purpose. The hon. and gallant Admiral the Member for Southwark (Sir Charles Napier) on a previous occasion had adverted in unfavourable terms to a plan he (Sir John Pakington) had conceived, while he was at the head of the Admiralty, for correcting the existing state of things. He thought he had good reason to complain that the gallant Admiral had chosen to make a paper, which in no sense had ever been made a public document, the subject of public comment. Those who heard that comment had never seen the paper, and were therefore quite unable to form any
 1227 1228 1229 1230 1231
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  in reference to the Question of the hon. Member for Richmond (Mr. Rich) begged to state on the part of the late Administration, that it was a matter of indifference whether the consideration of the Dover contract was entered into then or at a later period. His Friend the late Secretary to the Admiralty was prevented, he was sorry to say by indisposition, from attending; but the hon. Member for Tewkesbury (Mr. Lygon), in whose department this matter lay, and the late Under Secretary to the Treasury, who were both congnizant of the details of the question, were in their places, and were prepared to give the fullest explanation either to the House or, if so desired, to the Members of the Select Committee. He had no doubt they would be able to establish that this contract had been entered into purely with a regard to the advantage of the public, and in accordance with the practice which had always hitherto been observed.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, if he thought it was right that the Bill for the reform of the Corporation should be brought forward at this period of the Session? Under the circumstances, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman if he intends to proceed with a measure which must call up much opposition?
 COLONEL P. HERBERT  was of opinion that the only mode by which the occasional panic with which England was afflicted was to put the defences of the country into such a state as would inspire everybody with confidence. A little irritability with France now and then would be a small penalty to pay for putting our armaments into a perfect state of efficiency. It was no doubt very agreeable to find business was being transacted between the Secretary for War and the gallant General (General Peel) on such amicable terms. But he thought there could be no harm in questioning some of the very favourable statements that had been so pleasantly agreed on between them. One of these statements was that the number of men available for home service was 110,000. Now he had already shown that this force included recruits and many other men unavailable for the public service. On turning to the Votes already passed he found our infantry was put down at 62,200 rank and file, besides 5,600 Foot Guards, making a total of about 68,000 men. That 62,200 rank and file were, however, not in the country. They had to furnish all the garrisons from Hong Kong to Quebec, and from New Zealand to the Mediterranean. He believed he was within the mark in taking 30,000 men for these garrisons; which would leave only 38,000 for the defence of this country. The recruits at the Indian depôts might be added to that number, but they could not be relied upon to meet the disciplined troops of France; while it should be recollected that only a limited portion of the militia had been embodied for any considerable length of time. We had not the power, in fact, to bring a respectable force into the field, and he maintained that until we could do so, taking care always that at least one-half were troops of the line, justice would not be done either to the officers who commanded, to the troops themselves, or to the interests of a great country like this. He did not
 1264 1265
 SIR MORTON PETO  wished to call attention to the want of harmony in our military arrangements, which operated as a great impediment in the Administration of the War Department. During the Crimean war, when the attention of every one was directed to the efficiency of the service, he paid a visit to one of the camps in this country, and found that though the huts were erected the means of access to the camp by roads were quite neglected. The next thing which struck him was the fact that a regiment of cavalry was ordered there, although there was not a stable to receive the horses. Such an oversight could not arise if proper communication was maintained between the different departments. He paid a visit to the camp at Shorncliffe last week, and although it had been established four or five years there had been no drainage whatever, and
 1271 1272
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, that nothing could be more lamentable than the administration of the army during the Crimean war—the horses eating off each other's tails, while there was plenty of hay on board the ships in Balaclava harbour. He was sorry to see distinguished persons, who had served their country with great distinction, rising up in that House and making alarming speeches about the intentions of the Emperor of the French. He thought we should do well to imitate the administrative ability of our powerful neighbour, and put the country at once into an efficient state of defence without talking so much about it.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, in that case he would confine himself to the statement, that he was in error in saying that the arrangement made by this Company with the French Government, gave to that Government a priority over the British Government, in the right of transmitting messages.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he would beg to trespass on the attention of the House for a few moments with reference to a statement he had made the other night in his speech on the Red Sea and India Telegraph Bill. On that occasion he had stated that certain conditions had been made by the Submarine Telegraph Company with the Government of France. He had since received a letter
 1200
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  expressed a hope that no action would be taken by the Government on the Report of the Commissioners without the House being afforded an opportunity of discussing the whole subject, inasmuch as no decision at which they might arrive would otherwise
 1218
 MR. KNATCHBULL HUGESSEN  said, he did not know whether he had the power to object to the petition being withdrawn; but it was the earnest desire of both his hon. Colleague in the representation (Lord C. Paget) and himself that the imputations made against them by the petitioners in the face of the whole country for some time past should not drop without being submitted to a searching inquiry. If
 1293
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he joined with his hon. Colleague in the earnest desire that this matter should he inquired into, and he appealed to the Speaker whether it was not in the power of his hon. Colleague and himself to object to the petition being withdrawn.
 MR. SPEAKER  replied in the negative.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  replied, that as to the first part of the question, the hon. Gentleman must be aware of the difficulties which had ever attended any attempt to deal with a settlement of the question. He would, however, say that he had entertained the hope that after the passing of the Scotch Universities Bill, last year, some attention might have been given to the question in the recess; but he regretted to say nothing could be done this Session. As to the second part of the question, he thought that the passing of such a measure as that alluded to by the hon. Gentleman, was the necessary sequence of measures that had already been adopted by Parlia-
 1295
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the Report of the Commission was now under the consideration of Government, together with the valuable Bill that was brought in by the Solicitor General of the late Administration. Measures would be shortly prepared, and he trusted would be brought into Parliament in the ensuing Session for carrying the recommendations of that Report into effect. It was impossible to state what the details and provisions of those; measures would be further than that the object of them would be to give effect to the proposition for a Registration of Title, and to carry the recommendations of the Commissioners into effect.
 MR. FITZROY  said, that as it would
 1297
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that if the time of the year were to be an absolute bar to any discussion whatever, then of course it would be necessary that the Bill should be postponed; but, considering that there had been very little legislation before Easter, it would follow that nothing would be done this year. The subject had been frequently under the consideration of the House, and he was not aware that it was likely the House would obtain any more light to aid them in legislating in this matter next Session than at present; and, considering that the question had been divested of its most serious difficulty, namely, the financial portion, which was to be the
 1300
 MR. FITZROY  said, that in reply to the question of the hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr. W. Ewart), he had to state that a considerable Vote was taken every year to provide seats for the accommodation of the public in St. James's Park, the Green Park, Hyde Park, and Kensington Gardens. Last year a Vote of £250 was taken for this purpose, and in the present Estimates a Vote of £70 was proposed. There were at this time 102 public seats in St. James's Park, 67 in the Green Park, and 351 in Hyde Park, the total number of seats being 520; but he
 1301
 MR. FITZROY  replied, that he could only say they did not belong to him.
 MR. EVANS  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to the system of Letter Insurance which exists in Prussia, and to ask whether a similar system might not with advantage be introduced into this country? When persons wished to send notes, coins, jewels, or other valuable articles through the Prussian post, they attended at the office, exhibited the articles in question, declared their value, and paid a small fee. If after that they happened to be lost the owner was reimbursed, except, indeed, the loss had been occasioned by what, in the legal language of this country, was termed "the act of God." The extreme cheapness of this insurance in Prussia might be judged of from the fact that when the value was under  £ s.,
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that if he were enabled to propose to the House such a measure as that alluded to by the hon. Member he should unquestionably combine with it an increase of the Salaries of the Scotch Parish Schoolmasters.
 THE O'DONOGHOE  said, pursuant to notice, he rose to call the attention of the Government to the relations subsisting between Landlords and Tenants in Ireland, He was actuated by a desire to impress upon the Government the necessity of dealing promptly and fairly with this question. He hoped that their course would at least be plain and intelligible, and that if they did not think it wise to go as far as the country wished and expected, they would not seek to take refuge in a policy of disingenuous evasion. If the Government meant well they would be outspoken and candid. He would recommend them not to take fifteen months to prepare a Bill on this subject, but keeping in view
 1303
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD : should have risen, Sir, to offer some observations to the House immediately after my noble Friend (Lord Elcho) sat down, but that I expected his remarks would have mot with some response from one or other of the noble Lords, or from some right hon. Gentleman on the Treasury
 1310 1311 1312 1313 1314 "If we are to exert, as I trust we may have an
 1315 formâ, pauperis, 1316
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, that as a practical artillery officer, he wished to say a word on this subject. During the last three or four years there had been very great attention paid to what were called rifled field guns, and within the last year there had been introduced in France a sort of adaptation of the principle of the Lancaster rifled musket to field guns, but it had not been applied to anything beyond guns of a very small calibre. A great deal had also been said of the French rifled large arms; but he thought it was quite clear they had no such thing as rifled siege guns. No better proof could exist that
 1325
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he wished to draw the attention of the Committee to the fact that last year a correspondence had been laid upon the table, on the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster (Sir De Lacy Evans) respecting the deaths of a great number of officers and men belonging to a detachment of the 41st Regiment at Trinidad.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said he had not yet gathered the spirit of the hon. and gallant Member's observations, but he had no doubt that they would be found applicable to the subject under discussion.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that he was proceeding to show that it appeared that 4 officers, 3 sergeants, 17 privates, and 10 women had died from yellow fever in that island, and the mortality was attributed to the state of the barracks. A letter from Dr. Macdonell, the Deputy Inspector General of Hospitals, dated Barbadoes, September 27, 1858, contained the following:—
 "I will this day recommend to the Commander of the Forces that the troops be kept for some time under canvass, purely that the St. James's Barracks is in the worst position possible. I may safely assert that if a premium had been offered to any person to select the worst spot he could in the neighbourhood of Port of Spain to erect a military barrack, the person who chose the ground for the present barrack would have been the successful candidate." "Lieutenant Byham, of the 41st Regiment, who died of yellow fever, was attacked with that disease in barracks; he was acting as fort-adjutant, and having his office in barracks he preferred to remain there; it therefore shows that the disease, as yet, has confined itself to the barracks." "In a letter that I addressed to your office of
 1327
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, that reports were made yearly by medical officers as to the healthiness or unhealthiness of the different places inhabited by troops in our Colonies, and he thought that it was very desirable that a summary of those reports should be presented to the House. In the United States he was very much struck with the benefit derived from the report of the senior medical officer annually presented to Congress. He did not want lengthy books, but a short, clear, exact summary in reference to healthy and unhealthy barracks, so as to give assistance in applying a remedy to the great evils which existed.
 COLONEL LINDSAY  said, he wished to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to the position in which officers of high rank found themselves from not being able to order such alterations as were absolutely necessary when emergencies arose. When such officers, for the good of the service
 1331
 COLONEL LINDSAY  said, it was difficult to deal with the subject.
 COLONEL LINDSAY  said, he would give
 1333
 MR. FITZROY  said, he hoped that the hon. Gentleman would not persevere in that Motion. These Estimates were ready for delivery on Saturday last. No new sums were asked for any considerable works. These were merely commonplace Estimates, and, as the Session was so far advanced, and hon. Members had had sufficient opportunity of ascertaining the character of the Estimates, he thought they ought to be passed without delay.
 MR. FITZROY  said, the increase of £15,000 in the Vote for Royal Palaces was necessary to prepare Marlborough House as a fitting residence for the Prince of Wales.
 MR. FITZROY  said, it would be seen on looking through the accounts that no new works whatever had been undertaken, or were contemplated, in connection with the Houses of Parliament. The two items of £4,000 for the completion of the western front of the clock tower, and £2,500 for expenses in connection with hanging the bells and fixing the clock, had been omitted from the accounts of last year, in which they ought to have been set down, as was stated by the Member for North Leicestershire at that time. He pledged
 1339
 MR. FITZROY  said, that £4,000 of the Vote was for the tower.
 MR. FITZROY  said, the item of £4,000 to which he had alluded had nothing to do with the reception of the clock, but was to coyer the expense of completing the western front of the clock-tower, which had been left unfinished on the supposition that a wing corresponding to that at the other end would be erected, but the plan had now been abandoned. Hon. Gentlemen would see an item of £1,000 which was asked for on account of the clock, and, so far as he could ascertain, no further Vote would be requisite. Two hands were about to be substituted for those which were too heavy to go, but the cost of this alteration would be covered by the proceeds of the gunmetal of the discarded hands.
 MR. FITZROY  said, he hoped that the charge of £7,000 for indurating the stone would not prove a permanent one. This unfortunately was no new subject. From some cause or other—either from the effects of the London atmosphere or from some inherent reason—the stone of which the Houses were built indicated a tendency to decay. That was particularly the case with parts of the building more exposed to the frost and wet than others. In more sheltered situations it did not show the same signs of decay. Various means had been tried to arrest that unfortunate tendency—one process, in particular, which had been invented by a Hungarian, who did not choose to inform the public of what the substance used by him was composed. A gentleman named Ransome had also been permitted to apply a process, well-known, to several parts of the building, and his (Mr. Ransome's) idea was that if that process were properly carried out it would answer the end in view. The stone of which the Houses of Parliament was
 1343 1344
 MR. FITZROY  said, he could not inform the hon. Gentleman. He had nothing to do with the pictures in the building.
 MR. FITZROY  said, that the sum which he asked for was only sufficient to cover that portion of the stone which immediately required covering in case the experiment succeeded. Besides, every experiment must be made upon a sufficiently extended scale to afford any test.
 MR. FITZROY  said, the account with
 1347
 MR. FITZROY  said, he believed the bell was constructed with the greatest possible care by a gentleman who was supposed to understand the manufacture of bells better than any man in England. The combination of the metal was such as was calculated to produce the most harmonious tones. He was not a judge as to whether it had had that effect, but if the sound were an infliction, he was afraid they were likely to remain under it for a considerable time.
 MR. HENLEY  said, they had every year the reports of the engineers on these works, so that they were able to form an opinion as to what was going on. These reports had not been presented this year, and he did not understand why they should be asked to agree to this Vote till they had an opportunity of perusing them. The Secretary to the Treasury said there had been a modification of the Alderney Vote, but he should like to see the engineer's report on that modification. Why should the Vote not be postponed till the engineer's reports were in the hands of the Members?
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  hoped the Vote would be postponed. He was anxious, for one, to see the report of Alderney, as he had been informed that a report had been sent to the Government to the effect that if the original plan were carried out the
 1352
 MR. GLYN  said, that although there had been an increased estimate for the harbour at Holyhead, the increased accommodation for the public was more than commensurate with the increased expenditure. He only wished that all the public works had been executed so well as those at Holyhead.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, his attention had been called to it in connection with the other question relating to the printing of the Bible and Prayer-book, together with Acts of Parliament and Proclamations. It was probable that as regarded the printing of Acts of Parliament and the like, it would serve the ends of economy to make another arrangement than now existed with the Queen's Printer. Inasmuch as an authorized publication of the statutes was made legal evidence it was necessary that a certain copy of them should be printed in an authentic shape, and provided security were taken for that purpose the privilege of the Queen's Printer in printing the statutes need not be continued in the present form. Before the close of the Session he would endeavour to state to the House the course which the Government proposed to adopt.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  explained that he had stated on a former night that the cheapness at which the Bible was printed was owing not to any monopoly that was enjoyed by the Queen's Printer, but to the active competition which was carried on between the Queen's Printer and the two Universities, the effect of which was that a Bible was sold for 8d. and a copy of the New Testament for 4d.
 Mr. HENLEY  said, he wished to ask if there was any hope of getting the accounts of counties paid up closer than they were at present, for they had now fallen three half-years in arrear.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, it would appear in the report.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, he should move that the Vote be diminished by £85,000, the amount alloted for building and providing court-houses, offices, stationery, and printing. The ground upon which he did this was, that there was no provision for finding court-houses for the Sheriffs' Courts of Scotland, and this he thought was unfair, when such advantages were afforded in England.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, the business in the Sheriffs' Courts was formerly conducted by pleadings, but, as the evidence was now given orally, larger accommodation was required. The question as to the funds out of which that accommodation should be provided was under the consideration of the Government.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN , said he was willing to withdraw his Motion if the Government would give an assurance that a Bill on the subject should be brought in.
 MR. HENLEY  asked whether the fees payable in the County Courts were paid in money or in stamps, and suggested that the latter was the preferable mode.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would consent to postpone the Bill.
 MR. GILPIN  said, he hoped his hon. Friend would not divide the House now, because the question, as put, would not decide the issue which he wished to raise. The right hon. Gentleman opposite stated that he had not an opportunity of understanding the Bill, and his hon. Friend ought to give him that opportunity.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, it might be, as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated, that the Irish Members were interested in favour of the Galway contract, but he would ask if it was not the fact that there were Members on the Committee quite as strongly interested the other way? What he, in common with other Irish Members, wanted was that they as a body should be fairly represented in the constitution of the
 1362
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, be would remind the House that the petition of Sir William Russell, against the return at the last election for Dover, contained certain allegations in reference to the Dover contract, and he would therefore suggest that that Gentleman's case might be prejudiced if that contract were made the subject of inquiry before the Election Committee had tried the allegations in his petition.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that although the Chancellor of the Exchequer was acting quite justly in placing some of the accused on the Committee, he would remind the right hon. Gentleman that there were other interests involved in this matter than those of the late Government; namely, the interests of the commercial world in Ireland, and it was not a little remarkable that not a single representative of any commercial place in that part of the kingdom had been placed upon the Committee.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the effect of this Bill was twofold. In the first place, it substituted a declaration for the declaration which on the abolition of the Test and Corporation Acts was substituted for a sacramental test. It was intended for the protection of the Established Church, but how far it would accomplish the object might be seen by the declaration itself.
 1360
 LORD NAAS  said, he thought it would be desirable to postpone the naming of the two Gentlemen, as he believed the Roman Catholics of Ireland took a great interest in the question.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he thought it most unreasonable to oppose the Motion, as the object of it was merely to introduce a measure to correct an admitted mistake in the phraseology of the Act in reference to the Scotch Universities.
 LORD ELCHO  said, that, when appealed to on Tuesday by his noble Friend the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to withdraw the Motion which stood in his name, in giving way he reserved to himself the right of saying a few words in explanation of the motives which induced him to place his notice on the paper. He was now anxious, as shortly as he could, to make that explanation, because his motives had been much misunderstood. The House need not he alarmed; he had not brought the blue-book with him, and did not intend to enter into any argument to persuade hon. Members to adopt the opinions embodied in his Resolution. It had been stated that he had turned a Derbyite, and that it was from factious motives and hostility to the present Administration that he had given notice of his Motion. He entirely disclaimed everything of that kind. He entertained for the present Government no feelings of hostility. Far from it, he was prepared to do by them as he had done towards preceding Governments—namely, to give them his humble support where he thought they were light, and to oppose them where he thought they were wrong. It was not, therefore, from a feeling of hostility to the present Ministry, but simply from a desire to do what he believed to be an act of simple justice towards the late Government, that as an independent Member he had put his notice on the paper. It could not be denied that an impression had gone abroad that the policy of the late Government had been a policy not of strict neutrality, but one favourable to Austria and antagonistic to France and Sardinia. That was stated in the public prints and by their opponents in that assembly, and there could be no doubt that this had had a material effect upon the adverse division which took place in that House, and produced the fall of the late Government. Indeed, he had heard it said that had the blue-book been published previous to that division it would have made a difference in it of something like twenty votes. He did not wish to enter into any discussion on that point, but when the blue-book came out the impression it unquestionably produced was that the late Government had
 1305 neutralité inquietante 1306 arrière pensée, bonâ fide 1307 1308 1309
 LORD ELCHO  said, he wished to put another question to the right hon. Gentleman. In the course of a walk that morning near the Kensington-gravelpits, he observed a very fine elm, fifteen feet in circumference, which would, he feared, be destroyed if the present works were continued. The excavations had been carried to within the length of his umbrella from the tree, and the roots on one side had been already cut away. He hoped this fine ornamental tree, which stood in a position where it could be ill-spared, would not be destroyed, and he would suggest that the gentleman who had the direction of the works and whoso duty it was to have prevented this wanton act, should be called upon to repair, at his own cost, the damage which had already been done.
 GENERAL UPTON  said, he rose to call the attention of the Secretary of State for War to the fact that a considerable portion of the buildings of the Royal Military Asylum at Chelsea have been diverted from the humane objects for the attainment of which they were originally erected; and to ask whether it is his intention that such portion or portions shall be restored to the purposes for which they were designed? The percentage of marriages in the army was about 7 per cent, so that there were about 15,000 married soldiers. The number of children admitted to the Military Asylum was only 60 per annum, so that a large number of children when their fathers died had no resource but the woful one of the workhouse. At present there was a great desire expressed to improve the condition of the soldier and to hold out inducements for men to remain in the service, and he thought nothing could so much enlist the affections of the men as the knowledge that their children would be received into a school of this nature. He did not press the right hon. Gentleman to do anything at present, but wished to draw his attention to the subject.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that in reply to the last question he would take care that the Report of the Commissioners should be in the hands of Members some time before the Militia Estimates were proposed. With respect to the subject which the hon. Member for Devizes (Mr. D. Griffith) had referred to, he (Mr. S. Herbert) had not had his attention called to it before, but no doubt accidents would sometimes happen in publichouse rows, in which almost anything could be used as a weapon, even if the soldiers were deprived of their belts. In answer to the question of the noble Lord (Lord W. Graham) he had to say that he found the soldier had formerly taken the oath of allegiance and also swore to the questions put to him by the magistrate. It appeared that the soldier was not liable to be tried for perjury by court-martial in respect of the oath. At present the soldier took the oath of allegiance and answered the questions of the magistrate by a declaration. He thought the more the practice of taking oaths could be modified the better, as their repetition made them regarded as mere matters of form. Before the next Mutiny Bill was brought in he would see how far the present system might be modified. With regard to the Military Asylum at Chelsea, it was natural that the gallant General should wish to extend the benefits conferred on the army by that institution. It was an error, however, to suppose that the establishment of the normal school had led to a diminution in the number of the children educated in the Asylum. At one time there was at Southampton a large
 1321 minimum
 Mr. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he would go through the question which had been raised in reference to the barracks, and he might premise that he was not then asking for any vote for Aldershot with the exception of a small contribution to the railway station. In reply to the hon. Member for Evesham (Sir H. Willoughby) he was unable, from any information before him, to say what would be the future cost of Aldershot; but this he knew, that they were good and comfortable, and he believed the cheapest barracks that had ever been raised. With regard to the new barracks at Gosport, he admitted that the Estimate as it stood was likely to create confusion; that arose from the fact, that if a sum voted was not all expended in the financial year, it was repaid into the Exchequer and a re-vote taken. This explained the fact that £177,000 had been already voted for these barracks; but if hon. Members examined the Estimate they would find the original Estimate was £95,000, the amount expended was £87,000. The amount to be voted this year was £4,804, and in the column amount hereafter to be voted was a blank. The sum now to be voted would complete the barracks, so they would be finished for £3,000 under the original Estimate. With regard to the case of Trinidad it was by no means new to him, and since his accession to office inquiries had been directed to be made whether it would not be wise at once to give up the old barracks, sell the materials and the site, and remove to a better situation. The barrack itself was magnificent and spacious, but when the sickness broke out a certain number of the men were encamped elsewhere. As a proof of the value of space and air, it might be mentioned that when the barrack was thinned
 1330
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he could not then account for the discrepancies, but he would make inquiries on the subject. With regard to the barracks for the Guards, the delay was owing to the difficulty in obtaining a site; he had directed the Quartermaster-General to make a report as to those proposed. One site, which
 1332
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  stated that at the Wellington Barracks two or three methods of avoiding the evils arising from urine tubs were at present being tried, and he hoped that this nuisance would before long be got rid off.
 COLONEL HERBERT  said, the custom of the Indian Government was to authorize the officer commanding a station to expend
 1328
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that the Indian medal would be issued when Her Majesty had decided for what operations the medal should be granted. The medals themselves had not yet been received, but when they were they would be sent to the office of the Secretary of State for India, in whose department the distribution of the medals lay. With regard to the question whether the Commissariat Warrant would be extended to the Medical Officers' Army Warrant, it was true that the Commissariat had got their warrant, and they had been treated with great liberality, but to extend that warrant to other branches of the service would lead to great expense and inconvenience.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, the hon. Gentleman had not given notice of his question, and therefore he (Mr. Sidney Herbert) could not give a decisive answer; but he believed the distinction would be extended to that force.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  wished to remind the right hon. Gentleman that what he had said on a former occasion was that at the end of the present financial year we should be in possession of 300 Armstrong guns. After that time the manufactory would go on turning out two or three guns per day, so that at the end of the next financial year we should have a very large number indeed of those guns. He could assure the right hon. Gentleman that the Government were most anxious to push forward the manufacture of those guns, and very lately he had himself asked Sir W. Armstrong whether any sum of money which would enable him to procure additional labour or more rapid machinery, would assist him in the quicker production of those guns. To that question Sir W. Armstrong replied that he had every means, and as much machinery as he could possibly use, and that he could not make the guns any faster than he was doing. Sir W. Armstrong had two factories, one at Woolwich and the other at Newcastle, in constant work, and he believed that every exertion was being made to produce the guns as rapidly as possible. As to the question of rifling guns, his right hon. Friend was in error in supposing that the French had got all their guns rifled. Sir W. Armstrong was making experiments on the subject at that moment, and he hoped he would be successful. It was comparatively easy to rifle the brass guns, but more difficulty was experienced with the iron guns. Every effort would be made to overcome that difficulty.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, his opinion of Nettley had always been that the situation was unfavourable to the purpose of a hospital, and that the erection to be raised on it would be expensive. He raised the question of the salubrity of the site a second time, and scientific men were called in, but they were unanimously against him, and he felt himself bound thereby. The hospital was now in an advanced state, and he hoped he should find by experience that his opinion was wrong. With regard to the barracks generally, he might state that a thorough inspection had taken place, and all requests with regard to ventilation had been complied with as soon as made. There was much want still, however, of further accommodation.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he thought the accounts might be stated in a clearer manner and in a way more easily understood by the uninitiated than at present. In some instances they appeared to be contradictory, as for example, when the cost of an establishment was set down at more than the sum estimated. Thus, on referring to the Vote for the new barracks at Gosport, he found the total estimate was put down at £95,000, but in the column headed "account already voted," he found £177,000.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, he was not aware it was intended to propose his name. He admitted he was as much prejudiced one way as the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter) the other, and if they were both on the Committee the fairest thing they could do would be to pair off. He begged to say he had no local connection with Galway.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  (who was imperfectly heard): Sir, I certainly thought it quite unnecessary to take any notice of the speech that has been made by my noble Friend, who, having given notice of a Motion on this subject, seems to have reflected upon it, and to have come to the conclusion that he had much better not make it. I quite agree with him in that opinion, and certainly it is very harmless to indulge in a sort of triumph and jubilee when, in fact, he was at the same time retreating from the position which he had taken up. The noble Lord seems to have triumphed in considering that any wishes that my noble Friend and I might have had for freedom in Italy will be disappointed. That may be the case, but I sure I am not ashamed, and I do not think my noble Friend will ever be ashamed, of saying that our wishes were in favour of freedom in any country in which free institutions can be introduced. It is one thing to say that you will use the power of the country—that you will interfere with the means of a country, in order to introduce or to foster free institutions into another country, but it is another thing to rejoice whenever these free institutions prosper, and lament whenever they are blighted. The hon. Gentleman who spoke last has referred to Mr. Canning. I remember perfectly well the speech of Mr. Canning in this House upon the subject of the French invasion of Spain. The Spaniards had established free institutions in Spain. The French, at the bidding, or in concert with the despotic Powers of Europe, went into Spain to put down those free institutions. Mr. Canning declared that the policy of this country was neutrality; but at the same time he did not hesitate to say his wishes were that the Spaniards might be successful in resisting that invasion. The hon. Gentleman no doubt quoted Mr. Canning correctly; but, at the same time, Mr. Canning did not go beyond the line properly chalked out for the Minister of a free country in thus expressing his wishes, at the same time that he declared what the policy of the Government ought to be. The hon. Gentleman has referred to the conduct of the late Government. I am glad the noble Lord has not made it necessary for the House to discuss that conduct. I am ready to believe
 1317 1318 1319
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  was understood to say that no communication of the exact terms of the convention of peace, concluded between the contending parties, had been made to Her Majesty's Government. Count Walewski informed Lord Cowley, at Paris, and the French Ambassador in London told him (Lord J. Russell) that the convention had been signed, and stated the purport of the document in the terms already known to the House; but no communication of its exact terms had been made either to the English Ambassador at Paris or to Her Majesty's Government. He had directed Lord Cowley to ask for an explanation as to the exact terms of the
 1299
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that his time would be too much occupied with the duties of his present office to enable him to devote any time to the Bankruptcy Bill; but the measure was in the hands of his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, in the treaty with Japan he could not find that there was any clause which required the interference of the British Government. In that treaty the importation of opium was prohibited; it was deemed contraband, but there was no clause that the British Government should interfere to execute the laws of Japan.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, in answer to the question of the noble Lord, that the person to whom Government had applied for information on this subject was the gen-
 1294
 LORD LOVAINE  said, that upon investigation the late Board of Admiralty thought it advisable to propose a slight addition to the works at Alderney, and he must remind the Committee that a harbour which was not efficient was really of no value. This country must exhibit a striking spectacle to foreign nations. For ten years sums have been regularly voted for these harbours, and it had been established that they were works of necessity; yet every year Gentlemen were found doing all in their power to prevent them being made efficient. It seemed as if they delighted in undoing in one year what they had done in another.
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  said, he rose to call the attention of the Secretary of War to the oath taken by recruits on attestation. It would be sufficient for him to refer to what had occurred lately in India to show of how little effect the oath was in maintaining the allegiance of the soldiers; and also to the important fact, disclosed by a Return lately moved for by the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster, that, while in a single year 3,500 recruits had deserted before they had taken the oath, 17,000 had deserted within the same period after they had taken the oath. He objected to that part of the oath which made the men swear to obey the orders of i their officers, for after taking it the man who committed the slightest breach of discipline committed perjury. He hoped the Secretary of State for War would direct his attention to the subject.
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  said, he had by desire of the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, postponed the question which he now proposed to ask him. Rumours had been circulated for several days that orders had been received at Cherbourg and Brest that a large fleet should be collected. Peace had supervened, but that had only made those preparations still more extraordinary if they were still going on; and therefore he wished to ask the question of which he had given notice, whether Government has received any information respecting the formation of a large Channel Fleet at Brest and Cherbourg, with gunboats, and means for embarking and disembarking troops; and if so, whether they have demanded any explanations from the French Government on the subject.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that there was quite sufficient space in the middle of the floor for the purposes of ventilation with- out bringing the cold air into the House under hon. Members' feet. The present state of the Thames had been brought about by the Government and the House of Commons, and the inhabitants of the 'metropolis had had nothing to do with it. He did not object to the House being illuminated from the ceiling, but it was absurd to use glass so opaque that the light could; scarcely penetrate through it.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to call attention to the outrageous manner in which the ventilation of the building was conducted. Frequently when the House was very warm cold air was pumped in at the feet of the hon. Members, the effect of which was to drive the blood to their heads, and to produce those injurious effects which were so constantly complained of and which had often compelled him and others to leave the House. Then, recently, the most abominable odours had been pumped in through the holes and slits at their feet. The smell of the chloride of lime which was used was pleasant enough; but at other times the uncorrected atmosphere of the Thames was wafted through the floor, and then the effect was dreadful indeed. When they were paying £4,000 or £5,000 annually for what was called ventilation, they had, he considered, a right to expect that matters would be conducted in a more
 1340 1341
 MR. AYRTON  said, he hoped the Government would give some assurance that
 1357
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he was opposed to proceeding with such an important Motion at such a late hour of the morning (half-past one o'clock). He would, therefore, move the adjournment of the House.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, the fact was that cheapness was never attained until the monopoly was thrown open in Scotland.
 MR. DUNLOP  observed that this sum
 1353
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he rose to move, that the House do resolve itself into a Committee to consider a Bill to remove
 1363
 MR. DUNLOP  said, that the subject had been under consideration for years, and that the Government should be prepared to act in the matter.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he wished to call attention to the fact that certain officers belonging to the Customs in the Clyde ports were paid at a lower rate than the same class in Dublin, Bristol, and other places.
 MR. STEUART  said, he hoped that when the question of building the Sheriffs' Courts came before the House, some endeavour would be made to decrease the judicial expenses in Scotland, which comparatively were greater than in England.
 MR. BUTLER  said, he had a full appreciation of the exertions of the hon. Gentleman, but then it was quite true that he had been left in the lurch, inasmuch as he had been supported by only nineteen Members in the division which had just taken place.
 MR. BUTLER  said, he also would express a hope that the hon. Gentleman would not test the feeling of the Committee further. He had followed his hon. Friend into the lobby because he was left in the lurch, and because the Committee had certainly not had time to examine the Estimates; but he trusted, after having tested the feeling of the Committee, that the hon. Gentleman would now allow them to proceed.
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  advised the noble Lord, after the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to withdraw his Motion.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that if there was likely to be a discussion he would postpone it.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  in reply said, that the colony of "Queensland" was not actually in existence until the Queen's Order in Council had been proclaimed, by the Governor, who was about to go out. The only difficulty was as to the adjustment of the debt between the old colony of new South Wales and the new colony. The noble Duke at the head of the Colonial Department intended to leave the two colonies to settle that point between themselves, and only to have recourse to legislative interference in this country in the event of the colonies failing to come to an agreement. With respect to the question of boundary, the noble Duke proposed to abide in general terms by the boundary recommended by Sir William Denison, but if the two Colonial Governments chose to agree upon any modification of that boundary, they would be at liberty to do so.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to draw the attention of the Secretary for War to outrages committed by soldiers off duty, with their belts, which they used as a substitute for the side-arms of which they were deprived some years ago. He might refer for an instance to the case of a sol-
 1320
 MR. GRIFFITH  said, he wished to draw the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to the evils arising from the internal and nocturnal arrangement of the barracks.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he believed that the most efficient way of ventilating the House was that which they all adopted in ventilating a bed-room—namely, opening a window.
 CAPTAIN D. O'CONNELL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War if he will place the Report of the Militia Commission in the hands of Members before he states the extent to which the Government will adopt the recommendations of that Commission.
 MR. ROBERTSON  said, he would beg to ask the Lord Advocate whether it is his intention to introduce, during the present or the next Session of Parliament, a measure for the improvement of the general system of Education in Scotland, and at the same time providing for an increase in the Salaries of the Parish Schoolmasters, or for either purpose?
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, that as they were talking about the Houses of Parliament, he would beg leave to ask, to whom they were indebted for the funeral notes which every hour struck upon the ear of the House? He hoped that the First Commissioner of Works, or Mr. Denison, or Sir Charles Barry, or whoever it was that was responsible, would try to make some alteration in the tone of the bell. It was too bad that the Members of that House and the people should be condemned from hour to hour to hear that dreadful noise, a noise which they could only expect to hear when the great bell of St. Paul's was tolled on the death of a member of the Royal Family.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  observed, that the right hon. Gentleman had not given an answer with regard to the clock bell.
 LORD FERMOY  said, that with regard to preventing the decay of the stone, it was of course a mere matter of experiment, He suggested that there was no necessity to vote the whole of the £7,000 until the experiments had been made.
 LORD FERMOY  said, he remembered the different systems of lighting tried in the old Houses of Parliament. At one period it was lighted with gas, at another with lamps. He agreed in thinking that the present was a greatly improved method. The ventilation also, though it was still far from perfection, he believed to be much better than at a period when it was much more talked about. His object in rising, however, was to ask that some explanation might be given of an item of £7,500 for "indurating the stone of the Houses of Parliament," which he noticed in the accounts. He remembered that many years ago great trouble had been taken in choosing the stone for the House; Sir C. Barry, and a Committee under his directions, had examined every kind of stone in the kingdom, and had selected that of which the building was composed as the most durable. It now, however, turned out that they had built the edifice of rotten stone, and they had to pay for patching it up. He wanted to know what means were to be taken for indurating the stone. Would this sum of £7,000 be required every year? If so, one way, and the best in his opinion, to prevent the stone from decay would be to use the cement which had been applied to some parts of the building.
 LORD FERMOY  observed, that he did not agree with the hon. Member, as he thought it was desirable that the office of Lord Lieutenant ought to be kept up on the principle that he was opposed to the principle of centralisation.
 MR. BALL  said, that they had been watching the clock anxiously for months. Sometimes it went, and sometimes it was still; sometimes it struck, and sometimes it refused. He wished to know if this Vote would complete the works?
 MR. BALL  said, he trusted the House, taking into consideration the present period of the Session, would not fritter any further time away, but would proceed with the Estimates.
 MR. BALL  asked if £6,500 was required for the clock?
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he had only the same information at present as the hon. Gentleman himself, there not having been time for him to receive any Official Report.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that this interesting subject was one which had been brought under the consideration of the House every year during the whole time since he had the honour of being a Member. It had been undertaken by every Government without success. He had the honour to live in friendship with the distinguished Judge to whom the hon. Gentleman referred. Amongst the services rendered by that eminent individual was the framing of a Bill on this subject. What the present Government intended to do was to give their best attention to a subject of so much difficulty. If its difficulty had been in any degree removed by their predecessors having endeavoured to deal with it, the task which the present Government had undertaken might, perhaps, be facilitated. At all events, they had undertaken it conscious of its difficulty, desiring to overcome that difficulty if they could by reasonable precautions, and by framing a measure which might accomplish its object and do justice to both parties. At the present stage of their proceedings he hoped that the hon. Gentleman would not require him to say more on the subject.
 MR. CAYLEY  said, that the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) complained of the ventilation of the house. That gentleman was not a Member of the House before it was altered. He (Mr. Cayley) remembered when gentlemen complained of cold to their heads instead of their feet, and when the gas was under the House and not out of it. He thought one of the greatest improvements in the House was the putting the lights outside. The hon. Gentleman complained of the foul air of the House, but he would say with the venerable Mrs. Glasse, "first catch your hare"—you must first catch good air before you could use it for the House, and you might get good air if the atmosphere was not polluted by the Thames. Unless the hon. Gentleman would provide them with fresh air, he defied Mr. Gurney or any one else to procure for the House pure air out of an impure atmosphere. The ventilation of the House was as good as it could be with the materials Mr. Gurney had at his disposal. The hon. Gentleman and his constituents were great economists, and he
 1342
 MR. HORSMAN  said, it appeared to him that all the preparations which we
 1323 1324
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he wished to ask the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs whether any communication had been made to the British Government by the Governments of Austria and France with respect to the terms of the convention of peace entered into between them, or with respect i to the mode in which it was proposed to give effect to that convention, and whether any communication had been made in regard to it to the other Powers of Europe who were parties to the Treaty of Vienna?
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign
 1296
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he would appeal to the right hon. Gentleman whether the same argument did not hold good as to the Bible. Why should it be thought that monopoly in it contributed to cheapness?
 MR. HADFIELD  inquired whether credit was given to the public as the lives of those who had compensation fell in.
 MR. HUNT  said, that in that case he wished to give notice that if such inquiry was not proposed by the Government, he would take an early opportunity next Session of moving for the appointment of a Committee with a view to legislation on this subject.
 MR. HUNT  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to recommend to the House, either during this or the next Session of Parliament, any measure for relieving persons ordained by Bishops of the Protestant Episcopal Churches in Scotland and the United States of America from their present disabilities to officiate and hold cures of souls in England and Ireland?
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he would beg to inquire whether the Corps that marched through India under Sir Hugh Rose will have the India medal?
 MR. PEASE  said, he wished to refer to the difficulty of hearing that hon. Members experienced in the House. In some positions hon. Members were completely debarred from knowing what was going on. Some of them came hundreds of miles to attend the House. They could not all sit near the officials and those who did not could hear nothing that they said. It was strange that those who designed that House should have ignored the excellent buildings in America, and upon the Continent for Legislative Assemblies. He wished to know whether the account with Sir Charles Barry was closed?
 MR. PEASE  said, he also should support the adjournment, as he had been informed by an eminent engineer, that the expenditure on Alderney Harbour was not justifiable.
 MR. BUTT  (who had on the paper a Motion that this Committee do consist of twenty-one Members, and that Sir E. Grogan and Lord John Browne be added thereto,) said, he shared in the feelings of many Irish Members that generally, in the nomination of Committees in this House, Irishmen were not fairly represented. The Galway contract excited strong interest in Ireland and it was hardly fair that two Irish Members only, and they ex-officials, should be appointed to serve upon it. He begged, therefore, to move the increase of the Committee from nineteen to twenty-one Members.
 MR. MACKIE  said, he should be very sorry if the Government insisted on proceeding.
 MR. WILSON  said, these Estimates were usually commenced on the first meeting of the House after Easter. It was now the 16th of July. If they did not go on they would find three weeks hence that, instead of having got through the seven books, they would only have got through three, and the other four would have to be hurried over at morning sittings, and when many hon. Members had left town.
 MR. WILSON  said, that some years ago abuses did exist on the subject, but inquiry had taken place, and although it had not been found necessary to introduce a new system, the accounts were now subjected to examination, and the charges were regulated under the authority of the Secretary of State for the Home Department.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member having spoken already in the debate has not the power of speaking again or making that Motion.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Member was entitled to explain anything which deserved explanation in what he had said, but having already spoken he could not reply.
 MR. DODSON  said, he did not quite understand the argument of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Devonport (Mr. Wilson), that they were to hurry on now, lest they should have to hurry on three weeks hence, because he thought the objection was to the Estimates being hurried through the House at all. He was, however, content to accept the noble Lord's first proposition, to pass over Votes to which there were objections, taking only those of an ordinary nature which did not show an increase.
 MR. DODSON  said, he should support the Vote. It was important that the works at Dovor should not be interrupted, he-cause, if they were stopped, all the money hitherto spent would be wasted.
 MR. J. H. GURNEY  observed, that seeing a Vote of £4,000 for frescoes in the Estimates, he wished to remark that many of those in the upper lobby showed signs of injury from the dampness of the walls. Some means ought to be adopted to pre- vent the recurrence of similar injuries.
 MR. HENNESSY  seconded the Motion.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he considered that this Committee had been unfairly selected. It was unfortunate that the hon. Gentleman did not think it necessary to appoint originally any Roman Catholic Gentleman to sit on this Committee.
 MR. JOHN LOCKE : Then I move the adjournment of the House.
 MR. JOHN LOCKE  said, he rose to reply to some observations made by the hon. Member for the City (Mr. Crawford).
 MR. WARRE  said, he must express a strong opinion that these harbours of refuge were among those objects of permanent utility and necessity which demanded the attention of every Government. He hoped they would soon be extended to the eastern coast.
 CAPTAIN LEICESTER VERNON  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for War whether he will recommend that the Clause No. 12 of the Commissariat Warrant be extended to the Medical Officers' Army Warrant, whereby a Medical Officer, after twenty years' meritorious service, if pronounced by a Medical Board as permanently unfit for service, either mentally or physically, might be allowed to be placed on the permanent retired list; also when the medals will be issued, which it is understood will be granted for the achievements of the Army in India?
 CAPTAIN LEICESTER VERNON  said, he wished to warn the Secretary for War that it would not do to offer facilities to general officers on foreign stations for incurring expense on works without making a reference home.
 CAPTAIN LEICESTER VERNON  said, he had some knowledge of the barracks at St. James's, Trinidad, and he trusted the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for War would consider whether it was not desirable to get rid of these barracks altogether. They were exceedingly handsome barracks, capacious, and well constructed, but they were situated at the end of a ravine, which was death. Even as a matter of pounds, shillings, and pence, the health of the British soldier was worth attending to. Every soldier who carried a firelock in the Colonies cost the country £100, and how easily 100 men were knocked down by disease he need not inform the House. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for War would seriously take into consideration the state of these barracks in the West Indies.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he rose to move, that the Select Committee on the Endowed Schools Bill do consist of seventeen Members, and that Mr. Longfield and Mr. Butt be added to the Committee. He was anxious to obtain the assent of some Roman Catholic Gentleman to sit upon the Committee but could not succeed.
 MR. MARSH  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies what are the intentions of Her Majesty's Government with regard to the new colony of "Queensland," in the northern part of Australia.
 MR. HASSARD  said, he objected to the entire Vote. The expenses of the Civil Bills Courts in Ireland were paid either by the suitors or the counties. The construction of the buildings was paid for out of the county-rates.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he wished to call attention to the item of £10,000 for Dublin Castle and the Phoenix Park buildings, and to express a hope that the Government would seriously consider whether Ireland could not be better and more economically governed by being treated as a part of the Imperial dominions, and by the withdrawal of the viceregal establishments.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, the objection was not to the Vote but that the Committee were called upon to vote the money without sufficient explanation.
 MR. BLACKBURN  remarked, that an additional reason for the postponement of the Vote was, that certain returns relative to the subject were not yet before the House. It certainly was an odd way of proceeding, to vote money and then to get an explanation of the purposes to which it was to be applied.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, that in reply to some observations of the hon. and learned Member for Southwark (Mr. John Locke) on a previous night, he must deny that the creditors of the City of London Union had been parties to the postponement of the payment of their debts. Altogether there was due from the City of London Union to the creditors a sum of £13,366. The difference between that sum and £23,000 or £24,000 arose from other circumstances, but did not consist of debt.
 1359
 MR. LAING  said, he had seen the Report relative to this expenditure, and his most serious attention would be directed to it. He warned the House not to sanction the commencement of any work unless they were convinced it ought to he undertaken.
 MR. LAING  said, he must admit that the faith of the Government was pledged to this Vote, as there was a bargain between the Government and the railway; that if the railway were made Government would expend £20,000 for the improvement of the harbour.
 MR. LAING  said, he understood that in some cases payment had been delayed in consequence of a Commission now sitting on the subject. It would make its report, however, in a few days, and he would then take care that the matter should be looked into.
 MR. LAING  explained that this Vote did not include any amount for compensation, but was for the current expenses only.
 MR. LAING  said, the Vote in question was necessary under an Act of Parliament; and, as to the courts in Scotland, the Lord Advocate would take the matter into consideration.
 MR. LAING  said, he should be able to show the Committee that the Vote did not involve any of those large questions which would necessitate the notice required by his hon. Friend. The Votes which stood on the Estimates were not for new contracts, but were simply for the continuation of works that had already been largely carried out, and were in some instances nearly completed. The first was for the formation of a large jetty, stretching in the sea at Dovor, at an estimated cost of £650,000, and on which already a sum of £400,000 had been spent. That jetty, he should re-
 1349
 MR. LAING  said, he could only repeat that the estimates now before the House were the final estimates furnished by the Post Office, and adopted by his predecessor. All the items were given in great detail, so as to afford every information which any hon. Gentleman could require.
 MR. LAING  assured his hon. and learned Friend that he would cause the matter to which he had referred to be properly inquired into.
 MR. LAING  stated that the object of the change referred to was to bring this money more within the control of the House. No doubt the salaries were paid as the year proceeded, but then the House could check the repetition of anything it disapproved of in a future year. As to; difference of amount exhibited in the Estimates, he could only say that the Estimates of March and June were both produced by the late Government. It would be seen that the increase was accounted for under each head. Under (he head of Customs
 1334
 MR. LAING  said, the attention of the Post Office authorities had never yet been called to the subject—a fact which showed that with the facilities afforded the public
 1302
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he believed that the two objects of accuracy and cheapness, both of which were of equal importance in printing the Bible, had been attained by the active competition which existed between the Queen's Printer and the Universities; but the printing of Acts of Parliament and other public matters done by the Queen's Printer rested upon a different foundation, and there was reason to believe that they could hare Acts of Parliament if not better
 1356
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that a reduction had been effected under this head in pursuance of the recommendations of the Committee that sat on this subject. He wished to know whether the attention of the right hon. Gentleman had been called to the fact that the patent of the Queen's Printer expired at the end of this year, and to ask whether the Government would be prepared to state the course they proposed to take with reference to that state of things before the prorogation?
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he was of opinion that the House should not agree to this Bill without very full consideration. He hoped, therefore, the hon. Member would agree to the adjournment of the discussion to give the House an opportunity of reading the Bill.
 MR. HANKEY  asked, whether there was any chance of the bell sounding more like ordinary bells. At present it inflicted great annoyance upon the public and the House. He wished to know who was responsible?
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he would also beg to ask the Secretary for Ireland whether his attention has been called to the violent conduct of some soldiers of the Antrim Artillery Militia on Monday last at Kinsale, and whether he has received any official Report or confirmation respecting the causes or the results of that conduct?
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, that with reference to the plan for facilitating the free transfer of land submitted by him to the House in May, 1853, which plan was in substance recommended for adoption in 1857, by the Report of the Registration Titles Commission, and was still more closely embodied in the two Land Bills of the late Solicitor General, he wished now to ask the Attorney General whether the present Government intend to introduce any measure to facilitate the transfer of land by means of a proper system for the Registration of Title; when would such measure be laid before Parliament, and what would be the general nature of its provisions?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he regretted that he could not accede to this proposition. He had on a former occasion stated that no jealousy existed on the part of the House as to the representation of Irish Members upon Committees. In this instance his hon. Friend could not get rid of the idea of the Galway contract, but, although that might of itself have rendered inquiry necessary, an investigation must equally have taken place into the whole subject of such contracts even if the Galway case had never arisen, and six years ago the necessity of instituting such an inquiry was recognized. The effect of the Motion would be to place on the Committee two Gentlemen pledged beforehand to support the Galway contract. Now, there were already four Gentlemen on the Committee who, as Members of the late Government, would avowedly sit there as defenders of that contract, and the public jealousy would be justly aroused if they tampered any further with the constitution of the Committee. There was a direct objection moreover to one of the names proposed—Lord John Browne—as he was connected with the locality, and the Government had studiously avoided any selection of Gentlemen who might be supposed to have a local bias. All the Members of the late Government were Irish Members for the purposes of the Galway contract, and if they were disposed to make two seats over to his hon. Friend the Government would have no objection.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the question raised by the
 1358
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied that he would obtain information, and give an answer to the question on a future day.
 MR. BAXTER  said, he thought the Government ought to give a distinct pledge that early next Session they would bring in a Bill to put Scotland exactly on the same footing as England in this respect.
 MR. BAXTER  said, he would move that the Chairman report progress, as he was anxious that the Government should not begin new works, of which they could not see the end. If these expenses were once begun, they might depend that additional sums would be asked for next year. Besides it was well known that Portpatrick would never make a safe harbour.
 MR. BAXTER  said, under those circumstances he would not press his Motion to report progress.
 MR. BAXTER  said, the Secretary to the Treasury had merely repeated an old story, which they had often heard before. he had a most distinct recollection of hearing the late Secretary to the Treasury state to the House last year that the Government had not bound themselves to this enormous expenditure of £1,300,000, and that they would not make the contracts for Alderney without a statement to the House. The original Estimate for the works at Alderney was £600,000; £800,000 had already been expended, and they were now informed that they were committed to the expenditure of £1,300,000. They had been told on a former occasion by a gallant Officer, after £700,000 had been spent upon Alderney, that there was only room in the harbour for seven or eight ships. He believed that the works at Alderney
 1350
 MR. BAXTER  suggested that the Vote should be postponed, as many hon. Gentlemen who had paid great attention to the subject of harbours of refuge were not in their places.
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he had paid some attention to the subject of ventilation, and the ventilation of that House especially, and he found that great inconvenience arose from the want of a sufficient supply of air. In the House of Lords there were sixteen different doors upon the basement storey, while in the House of Commons there was but one door on the same storey. The result was that when it was heated a strong supply of artificial cold air was forced in, which caused a great alternation of heat and cold in the temperature. The lobby was not ventilated in the same manner as the House, and the air there was easily heated and became oppressive. In order to render the ventilation of the House perfect, a considerable further outlay was necessary. With regard to the material of the building, there seemed some fatality about our modern public buildings—St. Paul's, the towers of Westminster Abbey, and Somerset House, were built of the bright and cheerful Portland stone, and they had
 1346
 MR. W. EWART  said, he would beg to inquire of the Chief Commissioner of Public Works whether there will be any objection to increase the number of seats for the accommodation of the public, as well as to restore those requiring restoration, under the trees in Hyde Park and Kensington Gardens; and also, for what special reason a large portion of the Park beyond the Humane Society's Receiving House has been enclosed with rails, and thus withdrawn from the free access of the public?
 MR. MONSELL  said, the request of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter) seemed to him to be a reasonable one; it was that the Vote should be postponed till they had further information. The original estimate for the harbour of Alderney was £600,000, but last year they were told that an alteration was proposed in the plan, which would make it cost £1,300,000. The Committee did not know which plan had been decided on; and it was therefore only reasonable that there should be some delay until they had had information laid before them on this important subject. At the same time he would observe, that there was the greatest difference of opinion among naval officers of the highest authority as to the value of these works, and he should, therefore, have great pleasure in supporting the proposition of his hon. Friend.
 MR. NICOL  said, that by the construction of the pier at Dovor, troops taken down by railway might be embarked on board ship without the intervention of any boats. So far as the works had gone, they had completely fulfilled the object in view, and he thought it of the utmost importance that they should be carried on rapidly and to completion.
 MR. POLLARD URQUHART  said, he thought that the period of the Session precluded anything like a careful examination of these Estimates this year. Perhaps the better way would be to let them pass, and defer examination until similar Estimates were proposed next year.
 MR. TITE  said, that the art decoration of the building was not in the hands of the architect, but of the Art Committee. He did not consider that the character given of the pictures by the hon. Member (Mr. Ayrton) was a just one. The artists had, he thought, succeeded very well in the frescoes; and frescoes were more permanent and durable than oil paintings when exposed to the atmosphere of London. So far as he had observed, all artificial systems of ventilation were a failure. Whether you had to ventilate a large room or a House of Parliament, the best way was to open a window. There was, however, a difficulty in opening the windows in the neighbourhood of the Thames. To that a remedy was being applied. He might state incidentally that 100 tons of lime were now poured every day into the Thames, and he was assured that the influence of this supply would be found very beneficial upon the river. When Mr. Gurney was able to open the windows on the side next to the Thames, a great improvement in the ventilation would be experienced. With the exception of Portland stone, almost all the stone used for building in the metropolis was subject to decay. It would be a most lamentable thing, in his opinion, if cement were had recourse to for the purpose of re-
 1345
 MR. TITE  said, he would beg to ask the First Commissioner of Works whether he has any objection to place the Drawings for the New Foreign Office, together with the Designs to which the first two Premiums were formerly awarded, in the Library of the House with as little delay as possible, and without waiting for the Tenders from the Builders for the actual construction of the Gothic design.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he could not but attribute a great portion of the expenditure under this Vote to the fact that persons were employed to select sites for barracks who were entirely unfit for that duty.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he had given notice of a Motion to submit the present Army Estimates to a Committee, but in consequence of the late period of the Session he did not expect that the House would entertain the question, although he was still strongly of opinion that they would never have any reduction of the Army and Navy Estimates until they were brought under the consideration of a Select Committee. The present Army Estimates amounted to the largest sum which had ever been asked of the House in a time of peace during the last forty years. When there was this large expenditure it would naturally be expected that the defences of the country were in a perfect state, but on that subject they had various opinions. Some people of a nervous character were never satisfied whatever amount of money was expended on the army and navy, and hon. Members connected with the army and navy were always very anxious to increase the amount expended. Now, he found that though the Army Estimates this year showed a decrease of 7,480 men compared with last year, there had been a considerable increase in the staff of the army. The Estimates for Army and Navy this year amounted to £13,800,000 more
 1322
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he must protest against these enormous Votes being hurried through Committee in order that the Chancellor of the Exchequer might make his financial statement on Monday. He ventured to say that no Member of the
 1335
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, these Estimates, during the administration of the late Duke of Wellington, amounted to no more than £2,000,000. They had since gone on increasing year after year till they were now between £6,000,000 and £7,000,000. He required time to examine them, and should persist in his Motion.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he considered that the giving of these amounts in the Estimates was one of the most important reforms of modern times. Formerly these charges were deducted from the amount raised, and thus they were kept entirely out of the sight of the House. He thought that the civil service estimates ought not to be proceeded with, because they were only just in the hands of Members. He had had no time at all to consider them.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, it was not voting money, it was throwing it away, if the House were to be forced to go on; and what he could do he should do to prevent it. The first Vote, that for the royal palaces, was most important and contained some very extravagant items, which he intended to oppose.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he did not know what the Votes were, nor did the noble Lord himself. The Votes were the Votes prepared by the late Government,
 1337
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he did not know what his hon. Friend meant by observing that he had been left in the lurch. He had taken the course which he adopted simply with the view to discharge his duty to his constituents, whose pockets he had been sent to that House to protect.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS : I beg leave to move that this House do now adjourn.
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  begged to ask whether Sir G. Hayter's picture of the Meeting of the House after the first Reform Bill had been purchased, and if there was an estimate for it.
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  suggested that the officers' barracks should be furnished with iron bedsteads. It could be done at a trifling cost, and would save the officers much trouble in moving from place to place.
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, he must remind the Committee that the money for a railway had been subscribed in the district, on the faith that Government would put this harbour into working order.
 SIR BROOK BRIDGES  said, much had been said about fresh air. Would they allow him to suggest that the ventilation in the lobbies would be greatly improved if one or two of the windows were made to open.
 MR. BAINES  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs what means are being adopted to enforce that clause in the recent treaty with Japan which prohibits the importation of opium.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he could not but express his thanks to the hon. and gallant Member for bringing forward this matter, with the object of preventing the lives of our gallant soldiers being sacrificed. It was owing to want of liberality in that House and to the want of courage on the part of Ministers, to make the necessary demands, that military hospitals had been so badly constructed, and not to any remissness on the part of the military authorities. It was owing to the want of a feeling in former times, which now happily existed, of interest in our soldiers, and a determination that those who fight our battles should be well cared for. He trusted that the Government would take advantage of the feeling which at present existed for the purpose of adopting measures which would not only prove of advantage to the service, but would in the end prove to be those of true economy.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he was a member of the Committee originally appointed to consider the question of a site for the Houses of Parliament, and that Carleton Terrace was the locality to which their attention was first directed. He added that, after the present site had been decided on, he had heard it said on high authority that one reason assigned for fixing it there was that of the facilities for escape which the river Thames would afford to Members in case such a necessity should ever arise. With regard to the mode of ventilation, he himself kept a pair of worsted stockings and gaiters for wear in the House, in order to protect his feet from the cold air.
 SIB HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that he had just glanced over the items. He thought some of them very objectionable, and that there was ample ground for requiring time. For instance in the Vote for Royal Palaces there was an increase this year of £3,000, one of £15,700 for Marlborough House, and in Royal Parks of £24,000. The fifth item was the  vexata questio
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to ask for some explanation in regard to this Vote, inasmuch as the Committee were told on the last occasion of a Vote being taken for the new Houses of Parliament that that would be the last occasion on which it would be applied for. Was there still to be an annual demand under this head?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that he found two Estimates both professing to give the amount of the salaries and expenses of the Post-office department for the financial year ending March, 1859. The one was dated in March, and the other in June. The former gave a relative decrease in the amount of the salaries in the Post Office of £103,000 as compared with the amount of the previous year; while the latter gave an increase of £25,000.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to know how it was that the Estimates, as issued in March this year, showed a decrease on the whole amount £4,700,000 in comparison with those of last year of about £100,000, and the Estimates issued in June showed an increase of £16,000? He also wished to know whether, notwithstanding the change made in the theory of these departments, according to which the whole produce of the revenue departments was to go into the Exchequer, the salaries and expenses were not in fact paid by the departments themselves before the money came into the Exchequer? It was taking a great responsibility upon themselves to pay so large a sum of money without the vote of the House of Commons.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had appealed to them not to make long speeches on the Army and Navy Estimates, and he had thereby led many hon. Members to believe that the Civil Service Estimates would not be taken.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he rose to order. He wished to submit to the hon. Gentleman in the Chair whether this correspondence was relevant to the Vote before the Committee.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, nothing could be more unjust than to charge the House with want of liberality in regard to barracks and hospitals. Money enough was voted, but it was badly spent. He would wish to have some explanation of the manner in which Government Estimates were usually prepared. The Gosport barracks, for instance, were estimated at £95,000, but a Vote was taken in respect of them for something like £177,000. The estimated cost of the barracks at Aldershot had been placed at £400,000 last year; it was now stated at £574,000. These were very loose Estimates, and he should therefore like to know who was responsible for them.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that the barracks at Aldershot seemed to have involved the most extraordinary accumulation of expense that had ever come before the House. Last night he asked the Secretary for War what would be the sum required to complete these barracks, and was told when the money was spent there was an end of it. Originally the total estimated cost of completing the barracks at Aldershot was £260,000. It had, however, gradually increased, and last year it was expected to be £400,000. Even then it was described as the total estimate "towards" the erection of barracks. In the Votes for the year 1859–60, which the Committee were now considering, the estimated cost for these permanent barracks, instead of being£400,000, amounted to £574,265, besides £40,000 for other items. He wanted to know what was the meaning of this continual increase in the estimated cost. It appeared to him that there was something radically wrong in getting up these Estimates, and there was the appearance of treating the House of Commons like children, who could not bear to hear
 1326
 MR. CAIRD  said, he rose to ask the Lord Advocate whether it is his intention, on the part of the Government, to introduce a Bill, this or early next Session, on the subject of Education in Scotland, and especially with reference to the abolition of Tests in the parish schools; also whether it is his intention to bring in a Bill to abolish Infeoftments in Burghs in Scotland?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he thought there was no hope that the bell would ever give forth any other sound, but he would suggest that a compromise should be made. It was said the other day that two faces of the clock would not go. Why should not an arrangement be made, that all the faces of the clock should tell the hour, and the horrible tolling should cease.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he wished to know to whom the cows allowed to graze in the Park belonged?
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he wished to make an appeal to the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary upon a subject; Which had been already touched upon by the noble Lord the Foreign Minister—he meant the Motion for the second reading of the Bill for the Reform of the Corporation of the City of London. He wished to ask whether it was the serious intention of the right hon. Baronet to bring on a measure of that importance at this Session of the year. The Bill contained seventy-three clauses, and if the right hon. Gentleman supposed that the measure was going to swim through the House without opposition he was much mistaken, as he (Sir John Shelley) had given notice of several Amendments to the Bill. he believed it was the intention of the Government to bring in another Bill with regard to the finance of the City, and he thought it would be better to bring in both Bills early in the next Session.
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  said, that several hon. Members he knew had left the House believing that these Estimates would not be taken, in consequence of the declaration of the Chancellor of the Exchequer that if the Naval and Military Estimates were passed, he would make his financial statement on Monday. he intended to call attention to some of the Civil Service Estimates, but he was not prepared to do so, as he had only learnt within the last quarter of an hour that they were to be proposed.
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  said, he wished to know what was now thought of the situation of Nettley and its adaptation for the purposes of a hospital, and what was to be done with it for the future? He wished also to know what had been done for the improvement of barracks throughout the country, the condition of which appeared before a Committee of which he was a member some years ago, to be such as to be attended with serious consequences to the soldier.
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  observed that he was satisfied with the suggestion of the noble Lord, and he would appeal to the hon. Member for Lambeth to withdraw his Motion.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he could confirm the statement of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Laing). The bargain was made by the Government preceding the last. He thought the public faith was pledged to the Vote, as the railway company had already gone to considerable expense.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to direct the attention of the Secretary to the Treasury to the sum of £445,000, which was put down as the cost of a breakwater and piers for the accommodation of the packets. He would find that it was contemplated to expend a sum of £20,000 for a temporary pier for the accommodation of the Irish packets between Holyhead and Dublin; but the principal sum, namely, £430,000, was for a breakwater and a permanent pier, running into deep water, and capable of receiving vessels of large size. If, however, the point of departure for the Transatlantic steamers, as seemed to be now contemplated, was to be from a port on the western coast of Ireland it would be unnecessary to construct the large permanent pier at Holyhead, and in that case the sum of £20,000, with, perhaps, some extension, would be all that it was necessary to expend for packet accommodation at that port. He was anxious to direct the attention of the Secretary to the Treasury to this matter, as it involved a very large expenditure which it was important, if possible, to diminish.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that the system had been the cause of considerable incovenience, but it had been modified, and he hoped that when the arrears were wiped out things would go on in a regular way.
 MR. CAVE  said, as a civilian, he could confirm the statement of the hon. and gallant Member in reference to the unhealthiness of St. James's Barracks at Trinidad. They were placed at the end of a swampy ravine, and as the wind always blew there in one direction, it carried to the barracks all the malaria collected in the ravine. When Sir W. Don was at Jamaica he moved the troops to Newcastle and the station on the heights; and as the yellow fever never ascended to a greater altitude than 1,000 feet above the level of the sea, the troops in those barracks were free from
 1329
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  observed, that the suggestion that the Government should postpone this Vote until the papers referred to in the Estimate were laid upon the table was so reasonable that he could not imagine on what ground they refused to accede to the request.
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  suggested that the number of men should be stated.
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  said, he would remind the House that in some cases corporations enjoyed church patronage.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that the subject had occupied the attention of the Government, and that a measure would in all probability be introduced on the subject this Session for the purpose of increasing the judicial strength of the Court.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he held in his hand the paper containing the explanatory statements that ought to have accompanied the Estimate. It was printed, but had not been delivered. If the House should wish to see that paper before agreeing to the Vote, there could be no objection to postponing the latter.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter) had complained that the statement of the Secretary to the Treasury in defence of this Vote was merely a repetition of statements which had been previously made on the same subject; but that was an evil which could not be remedied. The hon. Gentleman might as reasonably complain that the same demonstration was given to a mathematical problem. The Government could only urge the best reasons for the construction of these harbours, which were not harbours of refuge, but military harbours, and it was impossible to invent new reasons without going beyond the verge of truth. He thought his hon. Friend (Mr. Baxter) had taken the right course to bring this question to an issue. The hon. Gentleman did not want explanation, for it had been given already, but he objected to the expenditure altogether, and the proper course was therefore to take the sense of the Committee upon the question. He (Viscount Palmerston) could only say that the construction of these harbours had been undertaken after most deliberate consideration, with the approval of the highest military and naval authorities, and after repeated discussions in that House. Large sums of money had already been spent upon the works, which were still incomplete, and if they were now suspended all the expenditure hitherto incurred would be entirely thrown away, and the country would be deprived of those military and naval advantages, most essential to the national defences, which these harbours were calculated to afford. With regard to Alderney, there could not be a more important position for the defence of this country. It might be invidious to go into that question now, but it was enough to remind hon. Gentlemen were Cherbourg was, and where Portland was. Alderney was one of the watch-towers of the country, and he thought it would be most prejudicial to the national security if these harbours were not completed as speedily as possible. It had been complained that the harbour at Alderney was not large
 1351
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that he did not pretend to say that he had looked over the Estimates, but his right hon. Friend and his hon. Friends on the Treasury bench were quite prepared to give every explanation. His hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth presented to the Government a rather awful prospect. If he were to be allowed the time necessary for him to get through seven or eight volumes of these Votes, and compare the items with the corresponding items for six or seven years past, they would not be finished until the middle of September. His hon. Friend had better have some confidence in the Votes proposed. Since they were the Votes of two Governments he might think there was some probability, at all events, of their being correct.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  suggested that they should read over the Votes, and withdraw those to which there was objection, or upon which hon. Members might wish to make detailed observations.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he wished his hon. Friend would not persevere in his Motion. He had no objection to postpone this Vote if desired, but the only increase in it was accounted for by the necessity of placing Marlborough House in a suitable condition to receive his Royal Highness the Prince of Wales, to the
 1338
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, there was no disposition on the part of the Government to press anything contrary to agreement. The Miscellaneous Estimates contained a great number of items, some of which no doubt the hon. Member for
 1336
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that when the subject was recently discussed, the opinion of the House seemed to be that before any change was made in the law, it was desirable that inquiry should be instituted by a Select Committee. It was not the intention of Her Majesty's Government now to propose such an inquiry, but it might be done next Session.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he thought the opposition of the present Board of Admiralty a gross interference with the principles of justice and good faith. The consent of the Crown had been already given to the project; and three surveyors sent down by the Board of Admiralty had reported favourably of it. The only reason for presenting this Bill to Parliament was to get rid of certain manorial rights and usages which stood in the way of these works. He trusted, therefore, the House would not be persuaded by the noble Lord to commit so great an injustice as to reject the Bill.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, in this Bill, as it originally stood, Clause 30 enabled the Treasury to give a guarantee and make an agreement with the Company for the use of the telegraph for Her Majesty's service. He thought guarantee clauses were most objectionable, and he had therefore given notice of his intention to move that this clause be left out. Since he had done so he found the promoters had struck out the clause, but in order to give hon. Members an opportunity of considering it in its present form he would move the clause be printed and placed in the hands of hon. Members, and that, in the meantime, the Bill be postponed.
 MR. ELLICE  (Coventry) said, he thought it was the duty of the Secretary to the Treasury to see that no such clause was inserted in a private Bill. He understood it was stated by the promoters of the Bill and by the Committee that the clause was inserted by the direction of the Treasury, but whether that was the case or not, the question for the House to consider was, whether these Bills were to be passed on the understanding that they were private Bills, with clauses not only enabling the
 1382
 MR. PEACOCK  said, he wished to ask the Chairman of the General Committee of Elections what is the latest period at which they will nominate Committees to decide Controverted Elections?
 MR. FITZROY  said, that when questioned the other day with respect to exhibiting the plans for this structure, according to the intention announced by the noble Lord, his official predecessor, he had stated that the working drawings would not be ready for some time, and, therefore, that he would not be able to exhibit them in the manner proposed. He had, indeed, given orders that, as far as they were in his possession, they should that morning be shown in the Reading Room of that House; but the designs now exhibited were only those which the House of Commons had had an opportunity of viewing on a former occasion. The designs of Mr. Scott for the new Foreign Office, prepared in accordance with the directions of the First Commissioner of Works, and which were considerably different from the designs in the Reading Room, would, he hoped, be ready for inspection by the members of that House on Wednesday morning, and he had given directions that they should be placed in the tea-room. He had received a letter from Mr. Scott on the subject, in consequence on which he had fixed upon Wednesday.
 MR. HENLEY  said, there was one part of the right hon. Gentleman's statement which was liable to be misunderstood. He had stated that at the Michaelmas quarter the public would have to pay id. or 2½ d. d.
 MR. PIGOT  observed that he had invariably voted against the income tax, with one exception, and that was when the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli), in his financial scheme of last year, led the House and the country to suppose that in 1860 the tax would cease altogether. So far, however, from that expectation being realized, they wore now called upon to increase the tax. Possibly the large Estimates which the House had already voted, and for which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had to provide, left him no option; but he was quite sure that the proposition now made to the Committee would have the effect of fixing men's minds out of doors to the enormous extent which the Estimates had reached, and lead them to inquire whether those military preparations, he would not say for war but for defence, were or were not required, or whether the alarm now prevailing was not greater than circumstances warranted. He regretted that, the reimposition of the income tux formed part of the right hon. Gentleman's scheme, and he further regretted that no difference was proposed to he made between incomes arising from trades and professions and incomes of a more permanent character.
 MR. GLYN  understood that the Chancellor of the Exchequer submitted this proposition as a mere temporary arrangement, and that between the present time and
 1419
 MR. LEATHAM  said, he was opposed to the income tax, as unjust and unequal in levy. It was unfair to tax the produce of a man's brains or hands at the same rate as permanent incomes derived from land or other permanent property. He was one of the sanguine minority of commercial men who hailed Mr. Gladstone's advent to power mainly because they thought he would carry out his own scheme and give the  coup de grace 1420
 MR. FITZROY  said, it was true that the Vote for the Parks was increasing from year to year in consequence of the additional means which were taken to promote the comfort and enjoyment of the industrious classes who resorted to them. The establishment of the Battersea and Victoria Parks had, he believed, been attended with special advantages to the working classes of the metropolis. He found, from a Return he had received, that on one Sunday, about a fortnight ago, 118,000 persons entered the Victoria Park, and 12,000 persons bathed in the lake in that park before eight o'clock the same morning, Some complaints had been made of the superintendents of Victoria and Hyde Parks, but he believed those complaints were not justified by facts, and that those individuals performed their duties in a most satisfactory manner. It was difficult to meet the views of all hon. Members upon these points. One hon. Gentleman had said he should like to see the Parks a vast expanse of verdure, like Berkeley Square. No doubt all would wish that,
 1439
 MR. FITZROY  said, that when hon. Gentlemen asked for whose benefit the conservatory at Kew was intended they did not seem to know that nearly half a million of persons, mostly of the working classes, visited these gardens annually. Indeed, the number of people who frequented them had increased in a wonderful ratio since the first year they were thrown open to the public, when the visitors were only 9,174. Many thousands of the humbler orders went there every Sunday, and enjoyed themselves in a quiet, happy, and respectable manner. He was therefore surprised to hear this Vote objected to. The potting of 40,000 geraniums had been talked of; but he would certainly do all in his power to increase the beauty of these gardens, which were a source of so much pleasure to all classes of the people. He was not aware that the hon. Member for Kildare (Mr. Cogan) had intended to put a direct question to him.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that for some time this Court cost the country from £17,000 or £18,000 to £20,000; but at present the nation was put to no expense on its account.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that such a Motion could not be made. The Vote must be cither negatived or withdrawn.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, he hoped that some explanation would be given of this Vote, on which a large increase had taken place annually since its establishment. It was admitted that tranquillity and prosperity were increasing in Ireland; why then was it necessary to maintain there a larger police force than usual?
 LORD NAAS  said, the reason of the increase was, that as the force had increased, the pension list had necessarily increased also, and additions had been required for good-service pay and for meritorious services, such as was customary in all forces. The force itself, however, by a recent Act, had been considerably reduced, and the quota to each county was now much smaller than it was.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, it was understood for some years that the police force of Ireland was a kind of army of occupation. As they were talking of strengthening the defences of the country everywhere, be did not think it would he wise to lessen the amount of that force, which was the only kind of defence left in Ireland. Whilst hon. Members objected to this payment of the Irish constabulary, be thought he had a right to protest against the enormous sums that were demanded for the Parks and other places of recreation in this metropolis.
 LORD NAAS  pointed out that the condition of the constables and sub-constables had been improved by allowing them good-conduct pay after a certain period of service, which was not the case with the officers until recently. He agreed that the pay was small, but they could get an
 1446
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he could only state that those matters of salary bad been carefully considered, though be was not prepared to give at a moment's notice the considerations governing each particular case.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary for Ireland what was the intention of the Government with respect to the recommendations of the Committee appointed last year on the Motion of Mr. Macartney, the late Member for Antrim?
 LORD NAAS  said, he rose to express a hope that the House might have an assurance that this subject would be taken into consideration by the Government during the recess. At the present moment there were two systems in operation in the United Kingdom, and convicts sentenced in Ireland to
 1447 1448
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he would not trouble the Committee to take the walk into the lobbies which the noble Lord had indicated.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, his right hon. Friend had observed a discreet silence with respect to the question of the hon. Member for Kildare (Mr. Cogan) why Members were not permitted to pass down Constitution Hill. The question really was whether the Parks were for the benefit of the people or not, and be should like to know who paid the two policemen who kept Her Majesty's subjects from passing through the Parks. There was also the question of the hon. Member for Coventry (Sir Joseph Paxton) as to the proposed expenditure on Kew Gardens. A sum of £25,840 was
 1440
 MR. KINNAIRD  observed, that there existed great anxiety on the subject of the reform of the corporation, and he did not think that the Liberal party should object to the discussion of the subject. If the measure could not be passed in the present Session, still its discussion would facilitate its passing in the next as any measure of the kind must be first thoroughly ventilated.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he had a Petition from Sir William Russell, one of the candidates at the last Dovor election, complaining of an undue return for that
 1385
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  had not made a Motion, he had only given notice of one for to-morrow.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, that the Admiralty had appeared before the Committee and had a full opportunity of making objections to the Bill. He believed that the military question referred to by the noble Lord had never been brought
 1381
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he knew no more of the causes of the riot than his right hon. Friend (Mr. Cardwell). But he could state that the Magistrates of Kinsale despatched a messenger to General Eden at six o'clock in the evening of the ocurrence. Troops were marched from Cork to Kinsale at midnight and at two the following morning, and the General himself was at Kinsale at five in the morning, when the Antrim Militia were marched out of the town.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the Correspondence in question would be laid upon the table in the course of a day or two.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he felt obliged to oppose the third reading of this Bill. The history of the Bill was shortly this: In the year 1851 some gentlemen proposed to embank a portion of Chichester Harbour and a neighbouring creek, called Bonham Creek. The promoters at that time obtained the sanction of the then Board of Admiralty. No Bill was asked for, but an arrangement was come to that with certain guarantees they should be allowed to carry out this measure, the object of which was to enclose some 1,800 acres of land from the sea. That company fell to the ground, and nothing more was heard of the matter until the present company sprang up, and brought this Bill before Parliament. As the House was aware, the Admiralty had jurisdiction in all matters relating to navigable rivers, and the late Board having given full consideration to this subject, came to the conclusion that, notwithstanding their predecessors had consented to the measure, that sanction ought not to be carried out. Chichester Harbour was in the immediate vicinity of Portsmouth, and it might yet be turned to good account both for the naval and the mercantile service. The promoters, instead of withdrawing the Bill, brought it before a Select Committee of the House, who, instead of supporting the decision of the Board of Admiralty, reported in favour of the Bill. The present Board however felt it their duty to support the decision of their predecessors. The piece of land lay within range of the fortifications of Portsmouth, and the promoters proposed to make a patch of dry land, on which a position might be formed and batteries erected, very prejudicial to the fortifications of Portsmouth. He also held in his hand a petition from the Mayor of Chichester, expressing the alarm of the inhabitants at the proposal to fill up one of the tributaries of Chichester Harbour, and stating that if the embankment were made it would fill up one of the creeks that performed the office of scouring the harbour. Under these circumstances, he felt it incumbent on him to propose that the Bill be read again that day three months.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, he hoped that the Vote for Kew Gardens would be agreed to. He could speak as to the necessity of providing shelter for delicate plants, which were now perishing for want of it. The number of persons who visited these gardens last year was 420,000; or only 100,000 fewer than visited the British Museum in the same period. There was no better object on which money could be laid out than in beautifying these gardens.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he rose to order. The Vote to which the hon. Member was referring had been passed.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that no one had a greater right to speak on this question than his hon. Friend who had just addressed the Committee; but although his hon. Friend began by complaining of the increased expenditure on the metropolitan Parks, he had ended by proposing schemes which, if sanctioned, would involve an expenditure of at least £100,000. [Sir J. PAXTON. Not annually.] No; not annually, but in the first instance. For two of the items to which his hon. Friend had directed their attention, he (Lord J. Manners) was responsible—the purification of the Serpentine and the proposed new conservatory at Kew. These two improvements had been repeatedly urged upon First Commissioners, and last year when the work of cleansing the Thames was handed over by the Legislature to the Metropolitan Board, he felt that the Serpentine could not be allowed to remain in a state little less disgraceful. During the recess, therefore, a scheme was drawn up by Mr. Page, who recommended it as a permanent improvement. His hon. Friend (Sir J. Paxton) took an objection to the island in an artistic point of view. That was a question of taste; hut at any rate, if that feature were abandoned, it would not tend to diminish the expenditure; because in that case the mud instead of being employed to form the island would have to be removed further away at an increased cost. The matter was one of detail, and did not interfere with the larger scheme of purifying this noxious stream. With respect
 1437
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he wish-ed to know whether the designs for the new Foreign Office promised by Mr. G. G. Scott were not yet ready for exhibition?
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  replied that the question of the Stade Dues had been referred to the Law Officers of the Crown, but as it was deemed desirable that the existing Treaty should be renewed for a limited time, it was proposed that it should be renewed for a period of six months. In the meanwhile, however, the Law Officers of the Crown would continue to give careful attention to the subject, but of course the notice which had been given of the termination of the Treaty fell to the ground with its renewal.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, according to the last report of Colonel Jebb, the average earnings of convicts were put down at £24 a year, and in some of the larger prisons they were as much as £30 and £32 a year; but be saw nothing like those sums stated as the earnings of convicts in connection with this Vote.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, the lowest pay of an Irish policeman was £24 a year, whilst the lowest pay of an English policeman was £45 a year.
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  said, he wished to call attention to the discrepancy between the salaries of officers of prisons, and the average number of prisoners, in various parts of the country, of which he cited instances.
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  asked what firearms had been issued?
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the hon. Member for Westminster (Sir John Shelley), and other hon. Members, as well as himself, felt they had been very hardly treated by the noble Lord at the head of the Government in respect of the London Corporation Bill. When the late Government went out of office they left in certain departments the draughts of Bills that had not arrived at maturity. The Secretary of State for the Home Department, however, fastened upon these Bills like a Zouave, and evidently thinking that every draught left by his predecessor was fair political plunder, and might be turned into political capital, he laid his hand on them and submitted them to the House. The present Government, however, had proposed a Motion of want of confidence in the late Government in which he had concurred, and he could not therefore help expressing his astonishment that no sooner had the Government come into office than they appropriated all the measures of the late Administration, without considering the principles on which they had conic into office. He should not have complained if the Bill, for the Reform of the Corporation then before the House, had been brought in by the late Home Secretary. It would have been in accordance with the views entertained by hon. Gentlemen on the other side, but it was a marvel to him that the present Government should adopt such a measure. Yet the Government persisted in having it debated in the middle of July, and in forcing it through the House. Great numbers of hon. Members on his side of the House felt it to be a grievance that this Bill should be taken at twelve o'clock on Friday morning. They were invited to attend on Thursday to discuss the Budget, and was it to be supposed that after such a debate they would be prepared at noon the next day to consider a measure of the
 1431
 MR. STEUART  said, that he felt it his duty to join the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Wallingford (Mr. Malins) in protesting against the proposed continued extension of the income tax. He could state that among his constituents there existed the greatest detestation of that odious and demoralizing impost, the severest condemnation of which had been pronounced by the right hon. Gentleman himself in 1853. He regretted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer should propose to undo the excellent budget of the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, under which the £2,000,000 or £3,000,000 surrendered in the shape of income tax had found its way to the Exchequer in the form of Customs' duties. But his proposition would at all events dispel the feeling of joy in which the country had been too hastily indulging, that the pledge given by the late Government of the termination of the income tax in 1860 would be redeemed, and some even might be disposed to think that it was that pledge which had induced the present Chancellor of the Exchequer to proceed in the opposite direction. He would not touch upon the minor difficulties which had been adverted to, and which were abundant, but he might be permitted to state what his impression was about a tax which was all his (Mr. Gladstone's) own, and of which we had now a five years' experience. He alluded to the legacy and succession duties upon real property. A small increase in one department was observed to stand out very prominently in the
 1417
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he wished to draw attention to the expenditure of that department of the Woods and Forests. This was the only department in the public service which had the power to lay out large sums of money without the previous sanction of that House. The gross revenue that passed into the hands of the authorities of the department was about £400,000 a year, and they expended between £80,000 and £90,000 annually on a variety of works for which they had no sanction whatever from Parliament. That was a state of things so unsatisfactory that he was in hopes Government would have dealt with this Department as they had with every other, and demanded that it should submit an estimate of its expenditure to Parliament from time to time. He would therefore suggest that this Vote should not be confirmed till a full statement of their ex-
 1429
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he would not reply to anything said in the debate, but would call attention to one or two points. The whole revenue of the Crown property amounted to £411,000. The expenditure of the Commissioners was £88,000; and the result was that the country was deprived of an amount of revenue which ought to go out of the Exchequer. There ought to be an annual statement laid on the table of the estimated expenditure by the Commissioners. He should on a future occasion take the sense of the House on that point.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he wished to make one or two remarks in reference to what the right hon. Member for Devonport (Mr. Wilson) had said respecting the management of the Crown property. That was a branch of the Administration which ought to be watched with the utmost vigilance. He complained that the Government took out of the revenue what ought to be paid out of the capital of the Woods and Forests.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that at first he was about to suggest Friday; but as he afterwards recollected that Thursday was now a Government night, he would suggest Thursday.
 MR. SELWYN  said, he thought it a hardship that the income tax should be of the same amount upon commercial men or tradesmen and upon the owners of property. He would also suggest to the right hon. Gentleman that consistently with his own views he might do something to remove an anomaly and inconsistency from the Statute-book—he alluded to the probate duty, which, although it commenced at a low sum and went on by successive steps, when it got to a million went no further, If a man died worth £100 it was taxed, but if he left millions, the second million did not pay any probate duty. Although such cases did not often occur, still we had lately heard of persons dying who were said to have been worth four or five millions, in which instances the first million was taxed, and the rest of the property altogether escaped. Now could not this be altered with benefit to the revenue of the country, and in a spirit of justice to the poorer classes more especially?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to ask for some explanation of this Vote. He thought that this Court was not based on right principles in regard to the means by which the payments of its expenses were met.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he stood aghast at hearing that it was intended to make an island in the Serpentine. He thought there were islands enough in the other parks, and that it was most desirable that the natural beauty of Hyde Park should not be destroyed.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  thought that the information asked for ought to be given
 1444
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, that he had moved the postponement of the Vote.
 MR. PULLER  said, that as far as he could collect, the class of long annuitants whose annuities would drop next Christmas, would be subjected to a special hardship by the proposal of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, inasmuch as they would have to pay next autumn, or next winter, the addition to the income tax for the whole year, although their receipts were only to extend to three-quarters of the
 1416
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, that they had to meet an expenditure which was neither a war nor a, peace expenditure, and it was desirable that it should not be met in the manner in which people on the Continent did—that is, to go into the market and borrow any money when extraordinary expenditure was incurred. It was a feature in our system of government that we looked difficulties in the face, and resorted mainly to taxation to meet our expenditure. It was not possible for a Chancellor of the Exchequer to have brought forward a budget more clear and straightforward, or one more likely to be popular, with one exception, and that was with regard to the manner in which the imposition of the 4 d.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he thought the hon. Member for Coventry was carrying the commercial principle too far. They had spent a great deal of money which was necessary for the public defences, and they ought not to grudge a little more for the recreation of the people. No one could see the crowd that flocked there on a Sunday evening, so clean and orderly, without seeing what a source of healthful recreation they were to the working classes.
 LORD FERMOY  said, that on general principles he was in favour of morning sittings, but as this Bill was likely to meet with great opposition, he did not think that there was the slightest chance of its passing during the present Session, and, therefore, he would suggest that it should be postponed till next Session.
 LORD FERMOY  said, he wished to ask what arrangement was made with the Bank of Ireland as to the sums received from suitors in this Court? He did not ask for the actual figures.
 MR. BALL  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had not certainly dealt with the producers of malt upon the present occasion with the same severity which he had displayed towards them in his former financial arrangements; but the right hon. Gentleman had not allowed that class to pass wholly unscathed. It appeared to him (Mr. Ball) that the right hon. Gentleman was mistaken when he supposed that the public supplied the malster with capital. The fact was that barley could not be immediately converted into malt, and all that the Government had hitherto done was not to subject malt to a duty until it could be brought into the market. That was surely a perfectly fair arrangement. He could not help fearing that the result of the right hon. Gentleman's scheme would be to create a diminution in the quantity of malt manufactured, and to reduce in a corresponding proportion the sum received under that head by the Exchequer. He thought, too, that the new arrangement would hardly be consistent with good faith towards the malster, inasmuch as it would extend at
 1414
 MR. BALL : Then he did not find any fault with that portion of the arrangement. But he believed that the whole scheme would injuriously affect the interests of the malster, and that that injury would revert upon the public revenue.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the subject had been brought under his notice, but it was not his intention to bring in a Bill on the subject during the present Session.
 MR. CARDWELL , in reply, said, that two inquiries had been instituted—one by the Military and the other by the Civil authorities—into the conduct of the Antrim Artillery at Kinsale on the 12th of July; but those investigations had not yet been brought to a conclusion.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, it was not the intention of the Government to bring in any Bill to amend the Irish Grand Jury Acts, with a view to apportioning the payment of Grand Jury or County Cess equally between landlords and tenants in Ireland.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the arrangement was made by the Treasury, and he did not know precisely what it was.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he would have no objection to furnish the information required.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he had no objection to a return being laid on the table of the sums received.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that a portion of those recommendations bad already been carried out in respect of convicts and misdemeanants.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that this Vote was to carry into effect an Act of Parliament passed last Session, when these principles were much discussed in the House. The Committee would not re- verse the decision then solemnly come to upon a mere Vote of this kind.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer recommended itself to the Committee, not only by the general soundness of the principles which it enunciated, but by the clearness and directness with which they were enunciated. The position of the right hon. Gentleman was no doubt a difficult one. He had a deficiency of £4,000,000 to meet, and if he had considered the feeling against indirect taxation which prevailed in some parts of the House, and the objection to direct taxation which existed in others, this difficulty would have been an impossibility. On the whole, however, he did not think the Committee would quarrel with the temporary arrangement proposed. There was one point in the speech of the right hon. Gentleman to which he would
 1422 1423 maximum minimum 1424
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, that Kew Gardens were the only legitimate place of recreation accessible on Sunday to the mechanic of Whitechapel and Spitalfields; and if there were not a quantity of geraniums and other attractive flowers to relieve the monotony of a dull botanical collection the working man would naturally say, "What is all this compared to the Crystal Palace?" The island in the Serpentine at Kew, about which an hon. Member had been so facetious, was merely  in nubibus.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, it was impossible there could this year be a fair discussion of the principles of this Bill. On the face of it the measure was utterly at variance with the Report of the Commissioners, of whom the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary was one. It left untouched several important abuses, such as the metage and wharfage; it disfranchised 10,000 of the livery at one swoop who had had no opportunity of discussing the question; and he feared there would be no sufficient attendance of hon. Members at a morning sitting to debate the Bill in the way it deserved.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, that he saw no reason for the indignation expressed by hon. Members. The power given by the Bill was no new power. In a great number of railway Bills authority was given to the Post Office to make arrangements for the conveyance of mails; and that authority appeared to rest on a similar principle as the power originally given by the present Bill.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he regretted that while the facility of bonded warehouses war, furnished to a number of small places where the revenue levied was very inconsiderable, the same kind of facility was not granted to other places of far
 1425
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he hoped that some special time would be fixed for the Education Vote, and that it would not be proceeded with that night.
 MR. KER SEYMER  considered it was the duty of the noble Lord to come forward on the present occasion, as the question involved was not merely a question of Chichester Harbour, but also one affecting the defences of Portsmouth. A great deal more was known then about the effects of long range artillery than in 1854, and he should therefore support the Amendment.
 MR. CLAY  said, he had always objected to the continuance of the income tax without an adjustment of its grosser inequalities. He admitted, however, and he believed that the country would admit the necessity which induced the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to increase the tax under present circumstances, and if he referred to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman when introducing the Budget in 1853, it was not for the purpose of taunting him with an inconsistency which necessity had forced upon him. This speech proved unanswerably that it was impossible in the distribution of that tax to arrive at anything like a near approximation to justice; but, in his (Mr. Clay's) opinion, it did not prove that there would be any difficulty in effecting some less unfair arrangement in the matter than that which at present existed. He felt persuaded, for his part, that the income tax must continue, to some extent at least, to be one of our permanent sources of revenue. Those who were young when Sir Robert Peel imposed it in 1842 were now middle-aged, and those who were then middle-aged were now old. Considering, then, that it would in all probability prove a permanent tax, he would put it to the right hon. Gentleman whether it would not be well that he should devote his great capacity to an attempt to mitigate the present irregularities of the impost.
 MR. CLAY  observed, there was nothing in the  physique
 MR. M'CANN  said, he was very much gratified to hear the Chancellor of the Exchequer enunciate the principle that "we should pay our way as we go." Whether with peace or war establishments, nothing was so conducive to economy. He and his constituents, and, indeed the whole manufacturing and working classes of Ireland, approved of direct as contradistinguished from indirect taxation.
 MR. WILSON  said, the Vote before the House was simply for the official establishment and nothing else. It had nothing to do with the management of the Crown property. The Committee on Public Moneys last year considered the question whether the revenues of this Department could not be brought under the supervision of Parliament like other descriptions of revenue; but they came to the conclusion that under the arrangement existing between Parliament and the Crown it could not be done. The next best thing was done, however, An annual statement of the income and expenditure of the Woods and Forests was annually laid before Parliament.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the hon. Member was not in order in replying to anything said in a debate on a Vote that had been passed.
 MR. HENNESSY  thought the police force of Ireland most inadequately paid.
 MR. LANIGAN  said, he would beg to ask the Attorney General if it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring in any Bill to amend the Irish Grand Jury Acts, with a view to relieve the occupiers of houses and lands in Ireland (to a certain extent) from the pressure of taxation, by apportioning the payment of Grand Jury or County Cess equally between landlords and tenants in Ireland?
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he understood that a Committee of the House was appointed to pronounce, whether Petitions should be printed or not; and until that Committee had come to a determination, no Motion could be made for printing a Petition, unless the right hon. Member stated that he meant to found a Resolution upon it.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he wished to say a word with regard to the class to which he belonged in relation to the injustice of the income tax. He would take the case of a man with £1,000 a year from land, and that of a man with £1,000 a year from professional exertions, and both of them at the age of forty. The time came
 1428
 MR. VANCE  said, that as an Irish Member he strongly condemned the principle of this tax. With regard to Ireland it was peculiarly oppressive. When the income tax was first proposed the late Sir Robert Peel, in lieu of it, placed a stamp duty and an increased duty on spirits in Ireland. Those duties were still kept on, and now the income tax was about to be extended to it. In 1853, the right hon. Gentleman, moreover, promised that, unless prevented by war, his plan would bring the income tax to a close in 1860; but now, instead of continuing the rate of reduction, the tax was to be nearly doubled, and very faint hopes indeed were held out of its abolition in 1860. The income tax was; looked on with peculiar aversion in Ireland, as there was a feeling that it was to a great extent evaded and only paid by those who were possessed of fixed incomes. Under those circumstances he most thoroughly protested against the measure.
 MR. VANCE  said, he thought that the percentage system acted very unfairly. He thought that, if anything, the small estates ought to pay the most, as they gave precisely the same trouble as the large ones.
 MR. WISE  said, that there was evidently something very wrong about this Vote. If the hon. Member (Sir E. Grogan) would divide the Committee, he would go into the lobby with him.
 MR. JOSEPH EWART  said, there was nothing so injurious to trade as financial tampering with the great necessaries of life, and he was glad that the right hon. Gentleman had looked more to direct than to indirect taxation in his financial arrangements. The only objection he had to the plan of the right hon. Gentleman was the mode in which the additional 4 d.
 MR. BASS  said, he did not wish the income tax to be removed altogether, as he thought it preferable to direct taxation. Nor did he make any complaint with regard to the proposed alteration as to the collection of the malt tax, but he thought objections would be urged on behalf of small malsters or malsters of inferior barley. Thirteen months' credit was given to the hop-growers, and often six and twelve months in addition. He supposed the answer he should receive would be that they could not pay at the end of thirteen months, but might not the extraordinary credit which was sometimes given be one cause?
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he wished to call the attention of the Secretary for Ireland to the fact, that the rank and file of the constabulary in Ireland were much discontented with their pay. To his knowledge numbers of the constabulary in Cork had gone to Canada, to the United States, and to Australia, in order to better their condition.
 MR. MALINS  said, that taking Schedule B, he understood the effect of the right hon. Gentleman's proposition would be to place those persons who had paid their income tax of 2½ d. d. d. d. d., d. 1412 ex post facto 1413
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, that representing as he did a great commercial constituency, he must express his hearty approval of the statement of the light hon. Gentleman. He would, however, urge on the right hon. Gentleman the propriety of not making us pay this amount of income tax all at once. He would also ask him to bestow his attention, during the recess, upon a further revision of the tariff, A statement of the net annual produce of the customs of the United Kingdom showed that out of the £23,000,000 raised in that way, no more than £7,000 was contributed by sixty-seven different articles, some of which were of the most insignificant and contemptible character, and some paying no more than £1 per annum. The right hon. Gentleman would render a great service to the commercial world if he would strike those petty and odious duties out of the tariff, and the mere reduction of the expenses of the Custom House would repay the trifling difference in the receipts.
 MR. GREGSON  said, he considered the proposition with regard to the matters fair enough, but with regard to the additional income tax he thought the levying of it in one payment would operate with extreme severity in many cases. He would suggest, therefore, that the payments should be equalized, or if a discount were allowed to those who chose to pay at once, he had no doubt the Chancellor of the Exchequer would obtain nearly the whole amount within the time stated. He also wished to express his satisfaction at what the right hon. Gentleman had said in reference to the tea and sugar duties, and his gratification that the amount now received from those duties, was far greater than they contributed to the revenues previous to the reduction.
 MR. LAING  observed that the clause referred to by the noble Lord was inserted in the Bill by the promoters, entirely without the sanction of the Government; and the Government intimated that they would oppose the Bill, unless the clause in question was struck out. The clause had, consequently, been struck out.
 MR. LAING  said, that the reason why the amount of the fees or poundage was not stated in the Estimate was the short time the Court had been in existence.
 MR. LAING  said, that part of the increase of the Vote was due to the issue of new firearms. Those which were served out sixteen years ago were of an old pattern, and so worn out as to he dangerous to use in hall practice. There was also an increase from the allowance of additional pay to the officers after a certain number of years' service. It must he remembered, that since the abolition of the Irish revenue police the constabulary bad done the duty, and they were, to a certain extent, a military force.
 MR. LAING  said, a description of rifle carbine.
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, the usual practice of the House was not followed in regard to the present Bill. It was customary for the promoters of such Bills to call on the Board of Admiralty to make their objections to the contemplated measures, if they had any.
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he rose to take the very earliest opportunity of expressing his sincere thanks to the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the very noble and honest proposition he had made to the Committee, and although he was quite prepared to hear strong objections to it from the other side, he would venture to say that for one hon. Member of that House who objected to the right hon. Gentleman's measure, it would receive the warm approval of 10,000 men in the country. The right hon. Gentleman had laid down the principle which he was sure would meet with public concurrence, that it was right and honest that those who possessed the largest property should pay the largest proportion of the taxation, He gave the right hon. Gentleman the greater credit for acting upon such a principle, because he was aware how unpalatable it would be to hon. Members of that House, all of whom were men of largo property. For his own part he only wished that the right hon. Gentleman had taken off half the malt tax and added 2 d. d.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary for Ireland whether any official information respecting the conduct of the Antrim Artillery at Kinsale, on the 12th of July last, has been received by the Government?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there was no doubt often a great difference between the accounts as they were first presented and as they were found finally to stand. All he had to say was, that the accounts were made up in the same manner as in former years; and he might add, it was impossible to make them up otherwise, with expenses such as ours scattered over the whole world. But he believed in this matter of discrepancy one year balanced the other.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I presume, Sir, that it will be for the convenience of the Committee that I should follow the usual practice of making known to it, before I proceed to discuss any plans or proposals of the Government, the results of the finance of the last year. This need not occupy any great length of time. I will state to the Committe the Estimates of income as they were proposed by the right hon. Gentleman the Member
 1386 1387 d. 1388 1389 1390 d. 1391 1392 1393 1394 1395 1396 1397 1398 from an hon. Member on the Opposition Benches. 1399 1400 1401 1402 s. d. s. b., d. d. d. 1403 d., d., d. s., s., s. Laughter. 1404 d. 1405 d. 1406 1407 d. d. d. d., d.; d., d. d. d. 1408 Murmurs. d. d., d. d. d. d. d. d. d. 1409 1410
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The next Resolution I shall only lay on the table. When will it he convenient to consider it?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained that the income tax was charged on the annual assessment, and the whole payment of 4 d. d.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained that the scheme would only affect what was called the "fifth round," which began on the 1st of October, and ended on the 15th of November.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that his first duty was to thank the Committee for the general spirit of kindness and the favourable impressions with which his proposals had been received. Nothing could be more gratifying, and for his part it would be exceedingly agreeable to meet any wish which was expressed by any number of Gentlemen in that House. With respect to the question of the payment of the 4 d., 1427
 MR. BUCHANAN  said, that he should
 1380
 MR. BARROW  said, it appeared to him that it would be very inconvenient that the payment of the income tax should be divided in the very unequal manner proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. In the first half-year the payment would amount to 6½ d. ,d.
 MR. BAXTER  said, he thought the scheme of the right hon. Gentleman was a just and a sound one, and would be so received by the country at large. He should be sorry, however, if it were to have the effect of withdrawing public attention to what he regarded as a most extravagant expenditure for the army and navy, but which before next year he hoped to see revised and reduced. His object in rising, however, was to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to one tax which in its present form was, he thought, the least defensible of all taxes. He meant the duty on fire insurances. The ordinary duty was double the amount of the premium charged by the companies, and amounted to 200 per cent. Its operation was this. In 1857 the whole sum derivable from the tax on fire assurances was £1,500,000, which represented a property of £820,000,000, to which was to be added £70,000,000 of
 1421
 MR. COGAN  said, he would also beg to ask the Secretary of State for War whether
 1384
 MR. COGAN  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty when Returns of Papers and Correspondence between the Admiralty and the Royal Western Yacht Club of Ireland, ordered by the House on the 7th and 18th of April, will be laid on the Table; and whether there would be any objection to add to the Return any Correspondence on the subject with the Admiralty since those dates?
 MR. COGAN  said the convenience of hon. Members of that House would be greatly promoted if their carriages were allowed to pass by Constitution Hill, along the Mall, and through the Horse Guards. If there was any objection to a passage through the Horse Guards they might at all events, without inconvenience, be allowed to pass into Parliament Street through Storey's Gate.
 MR. W. EWART  said, that if this sum
 1438
 MR. MASSEY  brought up the Report of the Committee of Supply.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he would advise the withdrawal of the firearms from the hands of the police, and substituting for them good batons. The late unfortunate affair in Limerick was occasioned by those firearms being left in the hands of the police.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, if the salary of the surveyor was equal to the amount which had been mentioned, it was a great waste of the public money.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he was not opposed to morning sittings, but he objected to meeting at twelve o'clock in the day, and then continuing to sit until two o'clock in the morning. The Corporation Reform Bill was a most important measure, and ought to be brought forward early in the evening; for in the daytime many hon. Members were engaged on Committees.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he must reiterate the complaint which he had made on Friday night that sufficient time had not been granted to the House to examine the Civil Service Estimates. No less than fifty-seven Votes, embracing a sum of £3,000,000, were passed without almost a. comment, notwithstanding a declaration made at the outset of the debate that not a single Member had been able to make himself acquainted with the details of those Estimates. Such a course, if persevered in, must tend, he thought, to destroy confidence in the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and to lead to a repetition of the unpleasant consequences which the noble Lord had already experienced. He wanted to know why the salaries which were to be covered by the present Vote were not paid like others out of the estates of the Crown. He believed that those estates, if properly managed, would be equal to any demands that could legitimately be made upon them, and thereby relieve the general taxation of the country to a proportionate extent. They would be amply sufficient to defray the £385,000
 1430
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he thought the expenditure upon the Parks was absolutely monstrous, he found in the Estimate an item of £7,747 for the Regent's Park, and he could not imagine how such expense could be incurred. The Park was, he believed, in as good a condition as it possibly could be, and the only thing by which it was disfigured was a building lately erected for the sale of gingerbread and lollypops. The objectionable state of the Serpentine was, he believed, entirely attributable to the fact that the sewers were allowed to run into that river.
 MR. WILLIAMS  said, he believed that the principle was bad; suitors availing themselves of this Court ought to pay the expense of supporting it. This he considered a just principle. He thought that this Vote ought not to be required.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, these men bad barracks and uniform, and other perquisites, and therefore they were not underpaid.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said he entirely approved of the course taken by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as he thought the true principle was to meet the demands of the country by revenue, and not by loans, He heard hon. Members cry out against this tax. In his opinion it would be better if those hon. Members would assist in keeping down the extravagant expenditure which was day after day sanctioned by that House, and which caused the necessity for these taxes. He thought, however, some means ought to be taken to relieve the poor working man who, by extra labour, brought himself within the working of this system, from the burden of the tax.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, that the Committee were asked to pass a Vote with no information whatever. Would the right hon. Gentleman undertake to give information to the House?
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  thought the Committee ought to know what sum had been received by the Court in foes. Unless that were known, the Committee could not know whether or not this Vote ought to cease.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he regretted that he could not give a very direct answer to the question of the hon. Gentleman. The proceedings of the Committee must depend upon the proceedings of the House, but the Committee would meet on Thursday, and he hoped that if the question was repeated on that day he would be able to state what was their final decision.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he would not at that time enter upon the question of the income tax, but he wished to know if the expenditure mentioned by the Chancellor of the Exchequer as having occurred last year was the real  bona fide 1411
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he should support the Motion of the noble Lord. It was extraordinary that such a clause could get into a private Bill without the knowledge of the Government.
 MR. CAIRD  said, he had called the attention of the House to this subject last year, but he did not receive such encouragement as to induce him to do so again this Session. As the question had been taken up by another hon. Member, however, he wished to point out that this Vote did not include anything like the whole expenditure of the department. There was a double office, in which the expenditure was contracted. The Commissioners were paid salaries for the work they did, but they committed the details to a surveyor, at a salary almost equal to that of a Cabinet Minister.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  remarked that he did not rise to remind the right hon. Gentleman of former speeches he had made on the subject of the income tax, but he thought that the country would protest against the manner in which the extra 4 d. 1418
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  remarked, that he had not said one word with regard to the superintendents of Victoria and Hyde
 1441
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  said, he would take that occasion to observe that a very large increase in the Estimates for the purposes of this Vote had taken place since 1852—a fact which he regarded as open to objection. In 1852, the year after the Great Exhibition, when the Parks were in a somewhat disordered state, the Vote was £60,546. From that period there had been a constant increase. In seven years it had increased from £60,546 to £123,000 or more than double. The principal items in that increase were the sums voted for Kew Gardens and Hyde Park, and, while he was one of the last persons who should object to such places being kept up in a becoming manner, he must complain of the peculiar objects for which the expenditure had been incurred. Kew Gardens, for in stance, which up to 1852 had been devoted to botanical purposes, had since that period been transferred into a popular flower garden. They had been told when Lord Llanover was at the head of the Board of Works that Sir W. J. Hooker had suggested great improvements in these Gardens. The noble Lord had enlarged the boundaries of the Gardens, and sanctioned the making of flower-beds to an ex-
 1434 1435 1436
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs the state of the negotiations for the abolition of the State Tolls; and also if the notice of the termination of the Treaty of 1844, given by the Government of this country to the Government of Hanover, has been withdrawn?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said,
 1415
 MR. CAVE  said, there were many professional men who worked as hard as any labourers, and whose case ought also of be taken into consideration. In their cases he thought some means ought to be taken to relieve them from the oppressive effects of this taxation. The imposition of the income tax on persons whose incomes were below £150 just made the difference of an excursion with their families in the summer months, and kept them in town to the great detriment of their health.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that of course the hon. Gentleman was free to have an opinion on the Bill which his right hon. Friend had brought forward, and when it came under discussion he would have an opportunity of stating fully the reasons why he thought it a Bill which the House ought not to adopt. But it was rather remarkable that the hon. Gentleman should object to the Bill being discussed at a morning sitting, because when the House acquiesced in giving a morning sitting to a Bill it was understood that hon. Members came to the discussion less fatigued than they were at a late hour of the evening. If the hon. Gentleman had any objection to the day, and would state it when his right hon. Friend was present, no doubt his right hon. Friend would consider whether the day were essential, and whether some other day could be conveniently selected. He must say that the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams's) charge, that he had the other evening exercised some constraint on the House in order to make it go on with the Estimates, was most unjust and unfounded. On that matter the House exercised its own opinion, and divided, and a very large majority concurred in the propriety of proceeding with the Estimates. If the decision of the House had been the other way, he should have submitted to it; and, indeed, the hon. Member for Lambeth submitted, though not in a very gracious manner, for he immediately put on his hat and left the House, which was as much as
 1432
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, these gardens were intended for the amusement of the public, and it was very fair that they should contribute to the amusement of that House. Nobody, therefore, ought to blame his hon. Friends for disporting on this Vote, because it was the annual occasion on which persons in that House derived pleasure from the same source as the population out of doors who frequented these parks and gardens. But when their amusement was over the people went quietly home; and he hoped his hon. Friends would not end their harmless recreation by disturbing the proceedings of that evening, and causing hon. Members to take a walk into the lobbies for which they might not be inclined. Speaking seriously, nobody in that House could object to an expenditure calculated to afford so much health and enjoyment to the poorer classes. No one could frequent the public Parks on a fine evening without seeing multitudes of people recreating themselves in those open spaces. The hon. Member for Coventry wished to treat this question as one of mercantile competition, and would fain preclude the House from spending any money in affording the
 1442
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, that the agent of the Company had consented that the clause to which he objected should be struck out—namely, that by which the Treasury would be able to give a prospective guarantee after the passing of the Bill. He had therefore no further opposition to make to the passing of the Bill.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought the Bill involved larger principles than the right hon. Gentleman who introduced it appeared to suppose. No one could demur to the objects of the Bill; namely, that in a time of epidemic, power should be conferred upon the Government to take all the means which science pointed out to mitigate the evil; but it was another matter when the House was asked to make perpetual an arrangement with new machinery and less safeguards than existed before. The system of house-to-house visitation was an invasion of the domestic privacy, but it could only be done heretofore under an order of the Privy Council, to which the Lord President or one of the Secretaries of State was a necessary party. That requirement gave the public confidence that the matter had been brought to the cognizance of the Cabinet, and that the vast machinery of the Act had not been improperly put in motion. But the fiat of the Vice President, which it was now proposed should be sufficient, would not give the same confidence, notwithstanding the great abilities of the right hon. Gentleman who now filled that office. Then, again, the House had not any experience of the working of the new system. The right hon. Gentleman had told them that the Privy Council had no special knowledge upon this subject, and could only be guided by the reports of their Medical Officer. That officer was undoubtedly a very competent gentleman, but he did not think it was satisfactory that the whole matter should rest with that gentleman. He would not have objected to the Act being continued for two or three years, in order that some idea of its working could be formed from actual experience; and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman
 19
 MR. COWPER  said, he thought the hon. Member for Finsbury, from his monomania against public health legislation, could hardly have given his mind fairly to the consideration of this subject. Misled by the name, both the hon. Gentleman and the hon. and gallant Member for Brighton (Sir G. Pechell) appeared to think this was the renewall of the Bill that had been the subject of contest in Mr. Chadwick's time, In the old Bill there were two portions— one which was unobjectionable, and another to which much objection was made. The objectionable portion—the interference with local government—had been made permanent in the Local Government Act, while the unobjectionable part only was dealt with in the present Bill. The hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) had asked why meddle with the matter till the cholera came? But you might just as well make no military preparations until the enemy was thundering at your
 21 22
 SIR WALTER FARQUHAR  observed, that though he did not wish to reject the measure, he thought it unadvisable to make the Bill perpetual. Time had not yet been given to see how it worked.
 MR. M. SMITH  said, that the disqualifications in question were only galling restraints and not useful tests, and ought therefore to be removed. If he thought it was an attack upon the Church of England he should not vote for it, but he believed it would in no way injure the Established Church.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he had heard no reason assigned for the Bill. No grievance had been pointed out, no injury had been shown to be inflicted upon any one. Some persons desired to destroy the Church of England and to reduce it to the level of a mere sect in the country, and if it was desired to pass this Bill to enable persons in corporate offices to carry out that wish, the existence of the restraints complained of was undoubtedly an inconvenience, but whether it should be abolished was another matter. He thought some Members of the Government ought to state their opinions upon the subject.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he was not aware that the Judges had made any formal Report on the subject; but from a document he had found in the Home Office it appeared that the Judges had given to his Predecessor in office their opinion that with respect to the expediency of holding the Assizes for the West Riding at Leeds they agreed in the unanimous judgment of the Commissioners appointed by Her Majesty to consider the question that it would not be expedient with a view to the administration of justice.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he was not aware that any such appointment had been made, but he would make inquiries on the subject.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for War, whether it be true that the Worcestershire Militia have been called out four times, have been embodied twice, and stationed at the two principal training camps, Alder-shot and the Curragh; that during the whole of that time the men have never had a ball cartridge served out to them, and have the old musket to carry about; and whether this is equally true as regards the North Glocester and other militia regiments?
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he would beg to ask the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs whether the document which has appeared in the public journals, purporting to be a copy of a despatch addressed by the noble Lord to the Court of Berlin, is authentic? A similar question had been put in another place when it was stated that some errors had been committed in the translation and retranslation of the despatch, and he wished to know whether the noble Lord will lay an authentic copy of the document upon the table?
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  had understood the noble Lord to say on a former occasion, that he had received a reply to the despatch from the Government of Prussia, and he wished to know whether he would object to lay a copy of that document upon the table along with his own Despatch?
 LORD STANLEY  rose to reply.
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, I will avail myself of the opportunity now afforded me to answer as briefly as I can the question put to me by the hon. Member opposite. The hon. Gentleman has challenged me to state whether my opinion agrees with or differs from that of the Commissioners generally on the subject of the amount of military force which ought to be maintained in India. Upon that point I will merely say that I do not believe it is possible for any set of men in this country, whether they be civilians or military men—I doubt whether it is possible for any set of men even in India—to lay down positively and precisely what is the amount of force, not at the present moment required to maintain tranquillity in India, but which will be wanted when the disturbances have entirely ceased, and when peace is completely restored. That is a question which does not admit of a precise reply, and when the hon. Member says that the Commissioners have adduced no arguments to show that 80,000 Europeans are required to preserve peace in India, I do not know in what manner you are to argue the question, or to prove that the exact number required is 60,000, 70,000, or 80,000, otherwise than by taking the opinion of the most experienced and competent witnesses whom you can find, and ascertaining what is their view as to the amount of force which is sufficient
 38 39 40
 SIR ERSKINE PERRY  said, it was clear that the course adopted by the late Government had altogether failed in settling the great question of the reorganization of the Indian army. The Military Commission they had appointed had produced a most unsatisfactory report, or rather two reports, for there were two, one of which was opposed to the other; and it was for the House to consider which of the two should be adopted. Although the question to be determined was far more a civil than a military one, inasmuch as it embraced considerations not only of finance but of the principles of Government to be adopted in India, the Commission consisted of a number of generals and only one civilian, and of its military members the majority were not at all acquainted with India. The consequence was, as one might see from every line of their Report, that the main subject present to their minds was not the Indian army, or the interests of India, but the British army, and the interests of their profession, He complained, also, that the Commissioners kept out of sight the views of Indian officers. From having brought forward some years since a Motion for the amalgamation of the two armies, he knew the opinions of Indian officers upon the subject, and that what those officers dreaded above all things was, the influence and favouritism of the Horse Guards; and yet it was a fact that, although the late Secretary for War, who, as Chairman of the Commission, acted impartially, ruled that inquiries respecting the Horse Guards and the sort of appointments they made in India might be addressed to the witnesses, the Indian general (General Hancock) who had expressed a wish to ask such questions was not allowed to put them, and accordingly he made a separate report. In that report he has had the courage to put on record his opinion as to the jobbing displayed in placing in the chief commands in India men incapacitated from age, infirmity, and inexperience. Whether the military force in India should be a force of the line, or a local force combined with a detachment of the line, was a question which had been left by the Committee altogether in doubt. He was very glad to hear the noble Lord opposite (Lord Stanley) give in his adhesion to what was the almost universal opinion of those who were acquainted with India, that
 41 42 43 44
 MR.FORSTER  said, he rose to move—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty representing the inconvenience of protracting the Session of Parliament during the summer months, and praying that Her Majesty would be graciously pleased to provide a remedy for such inconvenience by assembling Parliament for the despatch of business before Christmas." 52 53 54 55
 MR. FORSTER  said, he wished to express his readiness to withdraw the Motion. [ Cries of
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS :—Sir, I came down to the House prepared to agree to the Motion of the hon. Gentleman for a Committee to inquire into the expediency of continuing the system under which the Bible is at present printed in England, and therefore I was not prepared either to dis-
 71 72 d. d., d., 73
 MR. M'CANN  seconded the Motion.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he rose to express a hope that the Government would not accede to the Motion for this return, because all the information which the hon. Gentleman desired was to be found in the library. With regard to the period since 1806, much fuller information than he sought was given in  Thom's Almanack, 79
 MR. M'CANN  said, the noble Lord had proved that he, as an Irishman, was perfectly satisfied to take an outside place on the Derby-dilly.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, there were generally two motives in moving for returns of this sort. Either it was to obtain some information of which the House was not in possession—but that could not be the motive in this case, since there were already books of reference which gave all the information the hon. Gentleman desired in fuller detail and from an earlier date than he asked, so that it was just as easy to find out any of the facts which he wished embodied in a return as it was to turn up a word in  Johnson's Dictionary; 80
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY,  in reply, said, he should take no notice of the observations made upon him by the noble Lord opposite, but if he spoke of him in the same tone a second time he should probably reply by expressions which the noble Lord would not like to have applied to him. He had not been able to find in any book or work the information he required; but it was not denied that since the Emancipation Act was passed no Roman Catholic, he believed, had been appointed a member of the Cabinet. The Home Secretary had said nothing upon that point. He (Mr. Scully) wanted the return to show whether it was true that no Roman Catholic had been so appointed. He should not, however, trouble the House to divide upon the present Motion, but should renew the subject on future occasions.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he thought the House ought to understand well what was the object which the hon. and learned Gentleman aimed at. He had a very great objection to the last part of the measure. By an Act of Parliament, which he thought was a wise one, it was enacted that gentlemen who had obtained a degree in a university might be admitted to the Irish bar three years after they had been entered as law students at King's Inn; and that those who had not graduated should not be admitted until at the expiration of five years from their entrance. That provision had a beneficial effect in inducing men of education to join the profession, and the effect of granting the concession sought by this Bill would of necessity be to increase largely the ranks of the profession in Ireland. He had not heard that any scarcity of barristers existed, on the contrary, he had been under the impression that the profession was very fully stocked already. Education in former days was of the very highest order. Fortescue, who wrote on the praises of the laws of England, expressed in two lines the reason why our forefathers thought a good education was useful. He said it was "that they may have a greater regard for their character
 82
 MR. DEASY  said, be should agree to the introduction of the Bill, but he could not promise it support in its future stages. He thought it would be right to consult the benchers of Ireland before promising his support to the measure.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to extend the powers of the Conservators of the River Thames, said the object was one which would be approved by the House—namely to assist in the purification of the River Thames. He was afraid however, it would be of a very limited extent. The Conservators had represented to him that certain of their powers were deficient with respect to preventing the conveyance of impurities into the river, and he proposed to bring in a short Bill to supply the defect.
 Bill to extend the Powers of the Conservators
 84 ordered
 MR. COWPER  said, he wished to revert to the real question before the House, which was the Petition of Sir William Russell. There were two modes of action which this House adopted—one based on its judicial capacity, and the other on its character as the grand inquest of the nation. Now, the Petitioner asked that they should view this matter in their judicial capacity, and he thought the House would do wrong not to grant its prayer. Sir William Russell, being the claimant of a seat in that House, declared that he had been advised by counsel that his case would materially suffer if the subject of the mail contract were first investigated by the Select Committee. He (Mr. Cowper) thought the Petitioner was to be considered the best judge of his own case, and should in justice be allowed to conduct it as he was advised. The accusation made against the late Government, that they had used the influence of the Crown to corruptly sway the election, was a very grave allegation, which he thought ought to be treated judicially. He knew the history of the steam contracts from the beginning, and although there might have been many charges of neglect and want of caution with regard to them, the Dovor and Galway contracts were the first in which an allegation had been made against any department of a Government that it had entered into such an agreement with the view of influencing the return of Members to that House. The question involved was one, therefore, which ought to be treated judicially, and with the utmost seriousness, inasmuch as the honour and integrity of the House were implicated in its solution. The hon. Gentleman who had just spoken had made a statement which he was glad to hear, but then he could not help thinking that it would be more satisfactory if that statement were made before an Election Committee. He was sincerely desirous that hon. Gentlemen opposite should be able to come out of the transaction with credit, and he hoped they would not deem it their duty to oppose the Motion before the House.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken had called upon the House to treat the question under consideration judicially and seriously, while the right hon. Gentleman who had made the Motion had declared himself to be a lover of justice, and had then proceeded to attack the composition of the tribunal before whom all the parties concerned were to appear—namely, the Select Committee which had been appointed to inquire into the subject of Government contracts. Nay, more, the right hon. Gentleman who was so ardent a lover of justice had gone on to state that, if by that Committee the late Government should be acquitted of all corrupt motives in dealing with those transactions, a similar verdict would not be pronounced by the public at large. The right hon. Gentleman, indeed, seemed to forget what had been done in the House so recently, when the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in the conscientious discharge of his duty, refused to change the composition of the Committee on Contracts, although he had been called upon to do so by several hon. Members who objected to it on other grounds than those which the right hon. Gentleman has advanced. The right hon. Gentleman, notwithstanding all that had taken place in connection with the appointment of that Committee, did not hesitate to stand up in that House and to pronounce the Committee to be most unfortunately constituted for the investigation of the subject to which his Motion related. But how, let him ask, could the assumptions on which the argument of the right hon. Gentleman proceeded be justified? How could the trial which would take place before the Election Committee be prejudiced by the fact that the truth had been previously elicited? The Committee on Contracts had been appointed by the House to inquire into the question whether that political corruption existed by the very mention of which the right hon. Gentleman seemed to be so much distressed. The conduct of the late Government in making those contracts had been impeached. They challenged inquiry, and because, forsooth, the right hon. Gentleman was apprehensive that justice would not be done, he made an appeal to the House on behalf of the Petitioner whose cause he advocated that the investigation, which it had been deliberately decided should be entered into, should be postponed. And what was the ground upon which the appeal was based? Upon the fact that the Peti-
 101
 MR. HENLEY  remarked that the House was placed in a very inconvenient position in relation to the question at issue. It would seem that two Committees were likely to take cognizance of the matter under consideration, and the House was nevertheless engaged in discussing that very matter itself. The right hon. Gentleman, indeed, who had introduced the subject had dealt with it as fully and as enthusiastically as if he stood in the position of a counsel submitting his case to a jury, and that course was taken, it would appear, under the pretence of doing justice. The right hon. Gentleman had gone into a large amount of criminatory matter to prove that Sir W. Russell would be prejudiced if the prayer of his petition were not granted, and yet he had really failed to show in what respect Sir W. Russell would be injured if the House should not agree to the Motion. The House, however, was asked to accede to that Motion on the grounds of justice. It was asserted that the late Government were accused of acts which were, to say the least of them, not very decent, and that the charge demanded investigation. Now, everybody concurred in that opinion; but then the right hon. Gentleman must
 102
 MR. KINNAIRD  remarked, that the noble Lord (Lord Stanley), when he quoted the opinion of Sir John Lawrence as to the large force which should be kept up in India, omitted to mention another opinion of his, in favour of having a large irregular force. Allusion had been made to an opinion to which expression had been given by Sir John Lawrence, with reference to the origin of the mutiny in India, to which he wished to direct the attention of the House. The opinion to which he referred was contained in a letter addressed by Mr. Temple, Secretary to the Chief Commissioner of the Punjab, to Mr. Edmonstone, and was to the following effect:—
 "Indeed, it is Sir John Lawrence's very decided impression that this mutiny had its origin in the army itself; that it is not attributable to any external or any antecedent conspiracy whatever, although it was afterwards taken advantage of by disaffected persons to compass their own ends; and that its proximate cause was the cartridge affair, and nothing else. Sir John Lawrence has examined many hundreds of letters on this subject from Natives, both soldiers and civilians. He has, moreover, conversed constantly on the matter with Natives of all classes, and he is satisfied that the general, and indeed almost the universal, opinion in this part of India is to the above effect. It may be true that discontented Sepoys worked upon the minds of their less guiltless comrades, and persuaded them that a sinister but systematic attempt was about to be made on their ceremonial religion; and that in many regiments the majority were misled by designing individuals. But, as a body, the Native army did really believe that the universal introduction of cartridges destructive of their caste, was a matter only of time." 47
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he did not think that the case had been met by the assertion that the inconvenience to Sir W. Russell had not been stated. If this issue were tried by the Select Committee it must also be tried by the Election Committee. Assume for the sake of argument that the Select Committee came to ore decision and the Election Committee to
 107
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said he rose for the purpose of bringing under the consideration of the House the petition of Sir W. Russell, asking that the Select Committee on Contracts should not investigate the matters connected with the contract for the conveyance of mails between Dovor and Calais, made by the late Government, until the Dovor election petition had been disposed of. Sir W. Russell was a candidate at the last election, and had petitioned against the return for the borough of Dovor. In the petition which he (Mr. Bouverie) had presented the day before from that Gentleman, it was stated that Sir W. Russell was advised that the inquiry into the Dovor contract by the Select Committee would be prejudicial to the inquiry on the same subject which would have to be made by the Election Committee. It therefore prayed the House that it would instruct its Committee not to inquire into that portion of the matter referred to them till the election petition had been investigated. He would briefly state the grounds why he thought they ought in justice to comply with Sir W. Russell's application. He regretted that two very distinct subjects had been referred to the same Committee. They had referred to the Select Committee the general inquiry into the policy and character of the contracts which of recent years had been entered into by the Treasury and Post Office for the conveyance of mails and telegraphic messages, and also the investigation of the circumstances connected with the two contracts of the late Government, known as the Galway and Dovor contracts. He apprehended that the first portion of the inquiry might very properly be refer-red to the Select Committee as a fit subject for its investigation, but that the two matters, which touched the privileges of the House and the character of some of its Members, could hardly be properly conducted by the same Committee. It was to be regretted that when personal charges were in question, they should be referred to a Committee, a large proportion of the Members of which were more or less parties to the accusation brought against a
 85 86 primâ facie 87 "It was proved that George Knapman was bribed by the said Charles John Mare, Esq., the sitting Member, and by Joseph George Churchward, by a promise to use their influence to obtain him a situation in the Excise. That Robert Shears was bribed by the said Joseph George Churchward by a promise of a situation in the Customs for his son-in-law; and that William
 88 89
 MR. LIDDELL  said, the hon. Member for Walsall (Mr. Forster) proposed by this Motion to make a serious inroad upon English habits. A very large number of the Members of that House sacrificed their
 58
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  was under-stood to say that the long Rifles were those of which the Government had the largest store, and which would consequently be issued at present; but he hoped that no long time would elapse before there would be a sufficient supply of short Rifles to enable the Government to issue them to volunteers.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, it was true that the Worcestershire Militia had been twice out in training, in 1853 and in 1859; and they had also been twice embodied— from November, 1854, to Juno, 1856, and from November, 1857, to May, 1858. They had been at Aldershot, and also at the Curragh. He found that 6,000 rounds of ball cartridge had been served out for practice. He, as Secretary for War, gave no orders as to the practice of any particular regiment. All he had to do was to honour the orders that were sent for material. It was quite true that at the time referred to the Militia had not got the Enfield Rifles; but now they had them, and he hoped that all the embodied Militia would have them soon. The military authorities, the Colonels commanding the regiments, and the Generals inspecting where the militia regiments were quartered, were the persons to decide on the nature of the drill to which they should be subjected, and how far it should be carried.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, the hon. Mover and Seconder had entirely forgotten to submit any evidence that the adoption of this Motion would limit the action of Parliamentary eloquence, by which the duration of the Session was so much prolonged. Before the Reform Bill the number of hon. Gentlemen who thought it their duty to make speeches to satisfy their constituents was very much smaller than at present. Owing to the greater publicity now given to the discussions in that House, and the increased interest which constituents took in the speeches made by their representatives, a great number of Members who would otherwise wish to be silent were compelled to make speeches. It was perfectly obvious that if the Session should terminate of necessity on the 1st of June, a power would be given to a minority, unless the arrangements of the House were entirely changed, to stop the business of the country, in the same way as on Wednesdays business could be put an end to by debating until six o'clock. Again, if the House sat in November, not the smallest progress would be made before Christmas. He trusted that some Member of the Government would state the views of the Cabinet on the subject, but unless he heard something more practical than he had yet done he should oppose the Motion.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I doubt whether there is in the House at this moment, or that at the present time of the year there could be obtained, such a full attendance of hon. Members as would be desirable to decide a question, which so much affects the conduct of business in this assembly. I did not, however, understand my hon. Friend the Member for Walsall to make the proposition that a particular day should be fixed at which the business of the country was to be brought to an end. Of course if he had made such a proposition the answer to it would be obvious, namely, that as on Wednesdays, when hon. Members do not like what is going forward, they go on talking until six o'clock, so would they delay the proceedings of the House if they objected to them, until, say the 1st of June, if that particular day should be fixed for the termination of the business of Parliament. I understand my hon. Friend's proposition to be this, that by meeting in autumn we should be enabled to do so much business before Christmas that we need not sit so long in summer as we are accustomed to do. Now, I cannot think that it can be said that such an arrangement would not afford a reasonable time for disposing of the business of Parliament. Whether the six weeks of the commencement of the Session be counted from November to Christmas, or at a much later period, it seems to me that we could do quite as much business in autumn as at any other period of the year. There is this to be said, certainly, in favour of an autumn meeting, we should not see that great desire amongst hon. Members generally of getting to the country, which is manifested when the House is found sitting in the middle of summer. I rather think it is probable that you would have the business more quickly and better clone in the winter months than it is generally in the months of July or August. I do not understand that the arguments of my hon. Friend are in any degree affected
 60 61
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, if the hon. Gentleman would allow him to take a day or two for consideration, he would state whether the Government were prepared to lay upon the table the further correspondence on the subject.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  replied, that with the exception of some errors made in the translation, the document as it had appeared in the public prints was correct, but if the hon. Gentleman would move an Address to the Crown he would have no objection to produce the despatch in an authentic form.
 MR. AYRTON  said the exceedingly temperate manner in which the right hon. Gentleman had moved the third reading had almost disarmed opposition; but he (Mr. Ayrton) was of opinion that any such measure as the present was quite unnecessary. He regretted, moreover, that the discussion on so important a measure was postponed to the third reading. His hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury, who had paid great attention to this subject, had assured him the perpetuation of the powers given by this Bill were unnecessary. The right hon. Gentleman had correctly stated the provisions of the Diseases Prevention Act; but that Act had, last year, been allowed to pass without deliberation, simply because it was a mere temporary measure which was to be seriously considered in the present Session. The powers given to the Privy Council with regard to epidemics, endemics, and contagious diseases, were of so large and extraordinary a character, that he could not conceive that Parliament would confer them permanently upon any body whatever. The Act provided that in the event of any "formidable" epidemic breaking out—that was a loose phrase—
 16 17 sub terrorem,
 MR. BLACK  said, there was now no real restriction against printing the Bible in Scotland, and the only thing necessary to do was that the printer should give security to the Bible Board that the edition to be printed should be accurate. He should support the Motion.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, Bibles were printed by licence in Scotland, and were prohibited from being brought into England; and he wished to know whether this useless prohibition was to be kept up in future. It appeared only just that Bibles printed in Scotland should be allowed to be imported into England, while those printed in England were taken to Scotland.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that he was inclined to suggest that the House should meet within the first fortnight of January, so as to get really to work by the time they now usually assembled. There ought to be some rule as to the time within which measures should be introduced into Parliament, and the Estimates should be laid before the House soon after it met. He thought that no measure ought to be introduced after Easter, or, at all events, after Whitsuntide. The House of Lords had for some years made a rule to prevent the introduction of measures after a certain date. It was for the Government, and not for the House, to look to this matter.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he thought that after the statement of the right hon. Gentleman (Sir Francis Baring) the Chancellor of the Exchequer would hardly expect the House to support the suggestion he had made for referring the petition to the Select Committee. He should himself— though he had great doubts as to the expediency of such a course—have agreed to the suggestion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and left the Select Committee to decide the question, But there could then be no reason for taking that course, seeing the conclusion at which the Select Committee had arrived. He gave full credit to the right hon. Gentleman who introduced this business for all the impartiality of feeling which he had evinced. He held a deservedly high position in the opinion of the House, for he had on many occasions performed the difficult and arduous duties of Chairman of Committees; but he might be allowed to express the hope that he would not be Chairman of the Committee that was to investigate this matter. He thought the Members of the late Government had some claim on the consideration of the House in present circumstances. As there was really no prospect of the proceedings at the Dovor election being examined before a Committee this Session, it would not be fair to deprive the Members of the late Government of the opportunity that presented itself of promoting an investigation into all the circumstances of this case. His own anxiety was, he confessed, much alleviated by the full and manly statement which his hon. Friend (Sir Stafford Northcote), without asking it, had had an opportunity of making. That statement must have carried conviction to the mind of every Member in that House. So interesting was it from the candid and ingenuous spirit that pervaded it, and so characteristic of the nature of his hon. Friend, that it must have been
 106
 MR. BUXTON  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to that portion of the Report of the Commissioners upon the Indian Army which referred to the amount
 32 33 34 ipse dixit 35 36 37
 MR. BUXTON  said, he would move that the Report of the Commission be laid on the table.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, it appeared to him that the present short Session was to be chiefly used for a general attack upon the Church of England. Surely no Dissenter would wish to relieve himself of an obligation by which he was bound not to take advantage of the influence his office gave him to injure the Church of England. Power was granted to them on certain conditions, and what was now asked was that the power of the State should be used by those who held such office to attack the Church of England. If a man were chosen as a municipal officer by his fellow-countrymen he ought not to be permitted to use the powers which the State conferred upon him for the purpose of destroying the Church which the State maintained. The introduction of this Bill was, in effect, the laying the foundation of an internecine war, for he could not understand its object if it was not to attack the Church. The declarations having been accepted they were the conditions of the relation between the Church and the State, and the House was now asked to alter the law in that respect. For what purpose were they asked to do so, if it was not to enable those who had become vested with that power to attack the Church? They had already conflict enough upon these subjects, and he should, therefore, only say that he should vote against the second reading of the Bill, and should take every opportunity, at all events, of deferring these painful subjects until Her Majesty's Government had had an opportunity of considering them in
 28
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he had not the least objection to give a reply, but the preparation of the accounts did not de-
 30
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that it was possible that it might be necessary to bring in a Bill on the subject, and in that case, of course, the opinion of Parliament must be taken with respect to it. If a Bill were not brought in he should certainly make a statement of the course which the Government intended to pursue, and it would then be open to any one objecting to that course to take the opinion of the House on it.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he was sorry that he was not at present able to fix a day, as the Indian accounts, without which any statement must be unsatisfactory, were not yet on the table of the House.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he gladly rose to inform his hon. Friend (Mr. Bright) that he should be the last person to complain of his pressing this matter on his attention. Knowing the great interest which his hon. Friend had taken in Indian matters for many years, he would say that no person was so well entitled to bring forward a question of this kind as his hon. Friend. He could assure him that he should be perfectly ready to take his advice and act upon the principle which he had urged by dealing frankly with the House—taking them into counsel, if he might so speak— when considering the difficulties which beset the subject of India. It was because he was anxious to deal frankly with them that he had delayed the financial statement until he could lay the matter fully before them. It would be easy for him to make a concise statement on Indian finance, while from not having precise information, the House would be obliged to take the matter upon his  ipse dixit, 51
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, that no more righteous measure could be proposed. It was a general measure to do away with a declaration, which was generally distasteful to Nonconformists of all kinds, and he cordially supported the second reading.
 MR. CAYLEY  said, he saw no harm in making it a permanent measure.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, he objected to the perpetration of the present Act from a fear that if Parliament permitted the Privy Council to supersede the local authorities the latter would become lethargic. He should be glad to know whether the failures as well as the successes of the Boards of Health were recorded in blue-books, because, in that case, the House might hear something of Croydon, Hitchin, Folkestone, and Chelmsford—in two or three of which towns indictments had been brought against the local Boards for fouling the streams, by emptying their drainage into them. He should not object to passing a Bill for two or three years, but he did most emphatically protest against the attempt to make this a permanent measure.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he would beg leave to remind the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken that the present system was itself an inroad upon English habits. The hon. Member for Walsall therefore simply proposed to revert to ancient English habits. Previously to the time of the Union the Members of that House used always to meet in the autumn, and the change was only then made out of consideration for Irish Members. The modern facilities for travelling rendered that consideration now no longer needful.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he did not think this was a Motion on which the House ought to divide without some consideration. Making every allowance for the eloquent speeches to which they had just listened, he must say that he thought the two hon. Gentlemen had mistaken the nature of the question with which they proposed to deal, fie did not think they quite understood the evils which they wished to cure. One of the principal evils was those interminable speeches in which the hon. Members indulged. Why did not the hon. Mover and Seconder propose to limit the duration of speeches, more especially of the speeches of the Treasury and Opposition benches? Did they suppose that they could alter the nature of the House of Commons by an Address to the Throne? What occurred every week in the Session? Most important questions, upon which the very existence of the country depended, were discussed in the presence of only thirty or forty Members; but let there be some question which involved no principle and was nothing but a fight for place, and 630 Members would run down to the House
 57
 MR. HADFIELD  said, his own opinion of the way in which the mutiny had been brought about was, the manner in which the Sepoys had been pampered, until they had turned upon their masters. If the Government had raised the degraded classes of India into the condition of men, and placed them upon a proper foundation as subjects of Her Majesty, his belief was that the troops would hare remained loyal to the Crown. He denied that the missionaries received any subsidies from the Indian Government. They repudiated altogether the idea of engaging in the work as mere mercenaries, and he was quite sure that the society to which he belonged, and which had been very zealous in the cause of the missionary, would quickly cease to exist if it adopted any principles of a mercenary nature. So far from supporting the missionary efforts, the Government opposition to them was discreditable and disgraceful. Reason, justice, and truth, were the only influences brought to bear in support of the missions, and there was no greater enemy to Christianity than the Government of India.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, the Committee could not report this Session, and it ought to be insisted on by the House that no new patent should be granted until the report was received.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary for India whether it is the intention of the Government to give the House an opportunity of expressing its opinion upon the reorganization of the Indian Army, or whether it is the intention of the Government to settle the question without reference to Parliament?
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary for war whether the Enfield Rifle alluded to in the War
 31
 MR. CLAY  said, he thought the apprehension that, if a certain period were fixed for the termination of the Session, power would be given to any factious minority to stop the business of the country, was unfounded, because at present it was well
 59
 MR. BRADY  seconded the Motion.
 MR. BRADY  said, he could not but express his astonishment at hearing the right hon. and learned Gentleman state that no dissatisfaction existed in the minds, or had been expressed by the Irish law students with regard to the points which this Bill proposed to remedy. He knew, on the contrary, that they felt strongly the injustice of being compelled to come to England, and regarded it as an insult to the education which they received in Ireland. If they really came to study the law of this country the thing
 83
 MR. BRIGHT : I shall not attempt in the course of this somewhat irregular debate to enter into the details of this ques-
 49 50
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he would repeat his question on Thursday next.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that surely the right hon. Baronet could state all the facts contained in the accounts in the speech which he made to the House. Would the right hon. Baronet state when the papers would be laid on the table? Considering the time of the Session, he thought he was entitled to put that question.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman was able to fix a day when the subject of Indian Finance would be brought before the House.
 MR. SPEAKER : There is no Motion before the House.
 MR. SPEAKER  intimated that there was no Motion before the House.
 MR. BASS  said, he saw no harm in passing a permanent Bill, as it would not prevent any future legislation that might seem desirable. The hon. and learned Member (Mr. Edwin James) had complained of the injury done by local Boards, but this only proved the necessity of some central body to supervise the proceedings of the local Boards.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he rose to more for leave to introduce a Bill to amend certain laws and statutes relating to the admission of barristers and solicitors to practise in Ireland. The Bill merely contained two clauses, and its objects were twofold, one of them being to repeal a statute of Henry VIII., which rendered it necessary for students going to the bar in Ireland to attend a certain number of terms in one of the Inns of Court in England. Some of the most eminent lawyers in Ireland were in favour of that repeal. Another object of the Bill was to enable the benchers of King's Inn, Dublin, to admit students to the Irish bar on the same terms as students were admitted to the English bar. For the last twenty years the benchers in England had admitted students to the bar in three years, whether they were graduates or not; but in Ireland a student could not be called to the bar in less than five years after his name had been entered in the books unless he was a graduate of a university. The hon. and learned Gentleman concluded by moving for leave to bring in the Bill,
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he rose to express his concurrence in an observation that fell the other night from the hon. Member for Invernessshire—namely, that the actual amount of force that must be maintained in India would depend on the measures taken by the Indian Government. If the authorities in India were permitted to set aside the Royal Proclamation, then no amount of force England could send to India would maintain tranquillity in the country. It was high time, he thought, that the pledges given in Her Majesty's gracious Proclamation should be authoritatively carried out. The people of India were promised that they would be protected in their land possessions. In order to their being so, the resumption commissions ought to be utterly extinguished. The scheme of proselytizing the people by giving large grants to missionary establishments from the revenues of India should also be put an
 46
 MR. MALINS  said, that the same distinction which the hon. and learned Gentleman complained of as existing in Ireland existed in England, for a person who had a degree from a University was called to the Bar in England after three years, whilst those who had no degree had to spend five years before they could be called. He thought there was no injustice in that, because a degree from a university was a guarantee that a gentleman had received a good general education. He also conceived it to be beneficial that Irish students should come to England for the purpose of finishing their studies. He therefore opposed the introduction of the Bill.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he rose to disclaim any such motives as those which the right hon. Gentleman opposite had chosen to impute to the Conservative party. They had not supported the Bill last year merely because it was introduced by the Earl of Derby's Government, nor did they now oppose it because it was brought in by the present Government. The only reason that he and other Conservative Members opposed the present Motion was because they considered that further trial was necessary, and if it had been a question of renewing the Act for one year, or rejecting it altogether, he should vote for its renewal.
 MR. SPOONER  said, that it would be a disgrace for the House to pass a Bill which had only been printed seven days, for the repeal of numerous Acts of Parliament, and with respect to the introduction of which the promoters dare not state their reasons. The real effect of the Bill would be to lower the honour and dignity of the Church, and he was surprised that it was proposed to pass it in such a summary manner.
 MR. COLLIER  contended that those members of the late Government who felt that their conduct was impeached might present themselves before the Election Committee, and thus have an adequate opportunity afforded them of clearing their characters upon oath. The real objection to the Election Committee, however, which was felt by those Gentlemen, and those by whom they were supported, was that they would not form part of the tribunal to try themselves. The Secretary to the Treasury said part of the case of the late Government would be one of recrimination. [Sir STAFFORD NORTHCOTE dissented.] He (Mr. Collier) contended that if it was the object of hon. Gentlemen on the Opposition side to satisfy the public in this matter, they would not do themselves justice by opposing the Motion before the House.
 MR. LOWE  replied, observing that when the Central Board of Health was destroyed with it fell the compulsory powers. There were some powers which could not be vested in the local Boards of Health, and, consequently, the Government of the Earl of Derby sought to vest them permanently in the Privy Council. The hon. Member for Finsbury used against that Bill the same arguments which he had used that day, and the Government made terms with him, and took the Act for one year rather than run the risk of losing the Bill altogether. Yet hon. Gentlemen opposite now joined in the opposition to the act of their own Government, and he was rather disappointed that he could not count upon their support. He must, however, take his stand upon right, justice, and the public interests. By them he must stand or fall, and not by the permutations or combinations of parties in that House. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxford-shire (Mr. Henley), was wrong in supposing that the powers given by the former Act were by this Act given to an inferior authority. The powers transferred to the Privy Council by this Act were not the powers vested in the Privy Council of declaring that a formidable epidemic, endemic, or contagious disease had visited the kingdom. Those powers were possessed by the members of the Privy Council, of whom the Lord President of the Council or a Secretary of State must be one. It was only the subordinate power of the present Act that was given to the Privy Council, and which might be put in motion by the Vice-President of the Committee of Privy Council. With regard to vaccination, it might not be generally known that it was no part of the examination for a surgeon that he should be a vaccinator at all, and it was therefore necessary for the public to have some protection. He had been told the Privy Council might hire a medical adviser when they wanted one for any special duty. But what was wanted was a medical man who should devote his whole time to the consideration of disease in
 25 26
 MR. LOWE,  in rising to move the third reading of this Bill, said, that the manner
 13 14 15
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, the object of the measure was to remove from the Statute-book certain declarations now required to be made by Nonconformists, Jews, and Quakers, and which were said to prevent them from accepting certain municipal offices. Some of the statutes it proposed to repeal were of very ancient date, and he could not consent to that course except after mature consideration. He thought that, as the question was one of religious disabilities, it would be better that the second reading of the Bill should be postponed, and that the subject should be referred to a Select Committee. If that course should not be adopted he should feel himself compelled to oppose the Bill from want of sufficient information in the House to consider the subject. He would therefore move that the whole subject of declarations required as qualifications for the exercise of municipal offices he referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, that he was sorry his right hon. Friend the Member for Stamford, Sir Stafford North-cote, was not present to take part in this debate, but he believed if he had been in the House, he would have supported the Bill; nay, further, that had he remained in office he would no doubt have endeavoured to persuade the late Government to introduce it. For his own part he thought it would be better if the Bill were re-enacted from year to year. No one in that House proposed to repeal it; and all they asked was, that sufficient time should be given to enable the House to judge of its general effect. On the other hand to reject the Bill altogether would interfere with a great sanitary movement. But the House were asked to put upon the Statute-book, as a permanent Act, the measure of last year, and he doubted whether the time had come for such a proceeding. By that Act the power of the Privy Council to make the order depended upon the concurrence of the President of the Council or the Secretaries of State, whereas by the present Act any three members of the Council might put the powers of the Act into operation. As soon as the country understood that their legislation was for the public good opposition would cease, for it had never shown any reluctance to raise the money necessary to carry out sanitary enactments. At the same time he thought the whole law relating to the public health ought to undergo a thorough revision, with a view to prevent all clashing of authorities. If they made this Act permanent they ought to take out of it all the powers relating to vaccination, which ought not to be exercised by a central Board, but by local Boards of Guardians. All that the Privy Council should concern themselves with should be to take care that the lymph was sound and good. It was desirable that the country should know a little more of the working of the Act of last year, and if the right hon. Gentleman had proposed to continue that Act for two or three years
 23
 MR. T. S. DUNCOMBE  observed, that if the right hon. Gentleman would consent to limit the Bill to one year, it would be unnecessary to continue the discussion. [Mr. LOWE made a gesture of refusal.] In that case he hoped the House would agree with the right hon. Gentleman who last spoke, and would support a limitation of time in respect to the Bill. As the matter stood now, it appeared to him that a grosser attempt at jobbery, or a grosser violation of good faith towards that House had never been attempted by any public department. It must not be thought, that because two or three metropolitan members had spoken, that the metropolis had any special interest in the matter. In 1848 a Public Health Act was passed for five years, which Mr. E. Chadwick administered at a salary of £1,000 a year. That Bill did a great deal of good, but after a time Lord Llanover thought fit to commence an attack upon it; and of course the Government was a good deal puzzled. They asked the noble Lord if he would undertake the thing himself, and he consented. Accordingly he was appointed to the head of a new department, with a salary of £2,000 per annum, and the Act was continued from year to year, until 1855. The President of the Board of Health appointed Mr. Simon Medical Officer, at a salary of £1,500 per annum. In 1858 the late Government brought in a Bill which was passed, and had acted well, permitting of local control in those matters; but now it was proposed to hand over the whole matter to the Privy Council. But then came the question, what was to be done with the Board of Health, Mr. Simon and the secretaries of the Board. Well, the Vice President of the Committee of Education had but little to do. His office was almost a sinecure, and so it was proposed to assist him by another sinecurist, a Medical Officer, and the whole thing would be comfortable. Such an arrangement would not be tolerated for a moment by the Members of any popular constituency; but the Member for Calne—a rotten nomination borough—saw no objection to it; and so he had undertaken to look after Mr. Simon, and to establish a nuisance all over the country. But the country had something to say upon the point. It was not only a question of expense but of constitutional principle. New powers were given, the Privy Council
 20
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he for one felt the force of the appeal made to the House that they should treat this matter in a spirit of impartiality, and strictly refuse to look at it from a party point of view. Endeavouring to approach the question in that spirit, he did not doubt his right hon. Friend (Mr Bouverie) had made this Motion with no other aim in his mind than the advance-
 103 bonâ fide 104
 MR. BAXTER  remarked, that the declarations were useless; and that in Scotland they did not exist, although the Scotch corporations had what the English had not —namely, ecclesiastical buildings.
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he must deny that there had been any sanitary failure at Croydon, though he could not but admit that there had been some mismanagement in carrying out the drainage. The pipes at first employed were too small. They had thus got clogged up, and that circumstance, joined to an unusually wet season, had led to an outbreak of fever. But subsequently the health of the town was im-
 24
 MR. W. EWART  said, that he wished every success to the Motion of his hon. Friend, though he was afraid its chances of success were much diminished from the strong opposition it would have to encounter from the legal as well as the sporting interest. Especially would this he the case from the Court of Chancery, which was often found to be as powerful in Parliament as it more legitimately was in another sphere. His principal reason for supporting the Motion was that it would bring the
 56
 MR. WILLIAM LEATHAM  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether the Judges have reported on the West Riding Assize question; and, if so, whether it is his intention to lay the Report on the Table of the House?
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he thought the country was indebted to the hon. Member who had raised this question, for it was a question on the proper consideration of which depended the future conditions of the finances of India, and by association the finances of this country. He would confine his observations, however, to the one subject before the House—namely, the number of European troops necessary to be maintained in India for the future government of that country. The noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley) had expressed himself as being at a loss for any basis on which to come to any definite conclusion as to the number required for that purpose. But if the noble Lord wanted such a basis, he needed not to go further than the traditional policy of the East India Company. Now, what was the traditional policy of the East India Company? In the year preceding the outbreak of the Affghan war, the number of Royal troops in India was 16,040 infantry, and 3,711 cavalry; being a total of less than 20,000. Two years later, in consequence of the number of troops sent out from this country, the number of the infantry was raised to 25,000, and the cavalry to 4,000, still making a total of less than 30,000 of the Royal Army. The Company's European troops had risen from 15,000 to 20,000 men, so that from the period of the Affghan war down to the outbreak of
 45
 Mr. VANSITTART  said, that the opinion which he had formerly expressed with respect to the amount of European troops which ought to be kept up in India, remained unchanged by anything he had heard in the course of the debate. Hon. Members might say that we could dispense with our large European force if we instituted a better system of government, but he deprecated the use of such observations, for he thought that they were likely to mislead the public, and to have an injurious effect in reference to the Government of India. Our position as regards that country was somewhat peculiar, distant as she was some 15,000 miles from our shores. But, in addition to that circumstance, there was the fact that the character of the Natives of India was extremely impulsive, and that the greatest necessity existed for affording sufficient protection to those English capitalists who went out to settle in the country, by
 48
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that whatever might have been the justification for passing the Act in 1855, there was none for its renewal, as since the passing of the Metropolis Local Management Act, the most eminent members of the medical profession had been appointed to watch over the public health. Amongst them he might particularly instance Dr. Letheby, of the City of London. These gentlemen, he had been informed, had made arrangements for meeting in the event of an epidemic breaking out and suggesting precautionary measures, which would of course govern the whole country. The Bill, if passed, would involve an unnecessary expenditure of public money, and, instead of recommitting it, he thought it ought to be rejected at once. In Lambeth he was aware of one most eminent medical gentleman connected with the local Board who had only £400 a year, whereas this Bill proposed a permanent salary of £1,500 a year.
 MR. BAINES  said, he rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the Queen's Printers' patent in respect to the printing of the Holy Scriptures. The matter to which he asked the attention of the House was one of urgency, inasmuch as the letters patent of the Queen's Printers would expire from the lapse of time on the 21st of January next. If, therefore, Parliament was to express any opinion at all on the subject, it must do so during the present Session. These letters patent related to the printing of the Holy Bible, the Book of Common Prayer, the Statutes enacted by the Legislature, and several other works; but on that occasion it was his intention to confine himself to the provisions they contained, restricting to the Queen's Printers the right of printing the Scriptures. Notwithstanding this restriction, however, the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge possessed by law a licence to print and publish the Bible. He need not say that the Book to which his Motion referred demanded their utmost reverence and regard; nor that the authorized version of it, which he did not seek to alter, was one of the noblest monuments of the Anglo-Saxon tongue. The printing of the Bible had been made the subject of patents in all the three great divisions of the United Kingdom. The Irish patent, however, was in 1794 declared to be invalid by a decision of Lord Clare, then Lord Chancellor, who in delivering judgment was reported to have said,
 "I can conceive that the King, as the bead of
 67 mutatis mutandis, "That it appears by the evidence given before the Committee in 1837, and also from the Reports of previous Committees, that the prices of Bibles and Testaments, of which Her Majesty's Printers have thus had the sole monopoly in Scotland, have been increased by that monopoly to a considerable amount, so as to interfere with the free distribution of the Scriptures, and that obstacles have been thrown in the way of devout persons obtaining such copies of the Sacred Volume as they wished to possess. "That in the opinion of this Committee the Queen's Printers' patent in Scotland should not be renewed, and that the people of Scotland should have the advantage of the competition which the free introduction of Bibles and Testaments from the press of the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, and from Her Majesty's printers in England and Ireland, will afford." 68 "Among the advantages arising from the abolition of a monopoly in printing, a prominent place must be given to the reduction of price in the various works that were formerly to be procured only from one patentee. The sum already saved to the public in this manner is very considerable, and as this saving becomes available chiefly to the middle and lower classes of society, is a matter of infinite importance, and to Bible societies, by which they are enabled to circulate the Scriptures to a greater extent among those who, though most needing them, would otherwise have been altogether deprived of their instruction and consolations, the money that is saved must be considered as having a value far beyond its nominal amount." 69 70
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that in the absence of the Chairman he, as a member of the Committee, wished to explain that they had the agent of the petitioner before them, when he made the same statements as were laid down in the petition. There were, however, no particulars of any inconvenience likely to arise laid before them. The Chairman informed the agent that it was the opinion of the Committee that if the case were referred to them they
 105
 Mr. CROSSLEY  seconded the Motion.
 MR. CROSSLEY  said, he wished it to be distinctly understood that, as the patent would expire in January next, and as the Committee would not be able to report this Session, the patent ought not to be renewed until after the Committee had reported. No person could print the Bible without infringing the patent, for the words were, that "all and singular Bibles and New Testaments in the English tongue, or any other tongue, or any translation thereof, with or without notes," &c., should not be printed by persons other than the patentees; and, therefore, the statement of the right hon. Baronet the
 74
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, that for ten years hon. Members had been brought down to the House in the hottest part of the Session to discuss a Public Health Bill. He objected to this Bill, as he had done to previous Bills, as one which was satisfactory to no one. To perpetuate the existing Act without amending it would be absolute nonsense, because it depended entirely upon the working of the
 18
 SIR JAMES DUKE  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether any appointment has been made under the Act of Parliament passed in the last Session, enabling the Judges of the Superior Courts of Common Law to appoint Commissioners for taking Affidavits in those Courts in the City of London; and, if not, what is the cause of the delay?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he could state for himself as a party very much concerned in that question, and also, he was sure, for the Gentlemen who sat around him; that their only wish in this matter was precisely the same as that expressed by the right hon. Gentleman opposite; namely, that the case should be fully and fairly discussed, and the truth in every possible way sought out and brought to light. If it was of importance to the House, as it undoubtedly was, that the truth in regard to that question should be ascertained, it was of much more importance, he ventured to say, though hon. Gentlemen might perhaps not think so, that an opportunity should be given to the accused to clear themselves from the charges brought against them now on more than one occasion, charges which they utterly repudiated, for which, when
 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 primâ facie 98 maximum The Morning Herald. 99
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE : I move that the House do adjourn.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the hon. Gentleman who made the Motion made it with great confidence, not only in the reasonableness of his proposition, but also in the anticipation of its success. The hon. Member who seconded the Motion did not appear, however, to entertain equal confidence. There was one defect in the speech of his hon. Friend who made the Motion—namely, that he could not prove in argument—very ingenious and very amusing as it was—any public ground for the change which he proposed. It did not appear to him that his hon. Friend showed by any argument or any statement of facts that six weeks between November and Christmas was a better period for the transaction of business than any other six weeks in the year, or that the country would obtain any benefit from the change. His whole argument rested on personal considerations; that was to say, that his hon. Friend found it very hot in the month of July, that he knew other friends of his who were like sufferers, that the Thames was disagreeable, that the Session had been interrupted, and that there had been a great loss of time. Appealing to those who objected to the change, the whole force of the appeal appeared to him to rest upon the personal feeling and preferences of those who supported the Motion. He unfortunately differed with his hon. Friend in opinion. He had had the misfortune to be present at several autumn Sessions, and he remembered being made exceedingly ill by the state of the House. It was true that they were very hot in the summer, especially when the summer was as hot as it had been last year and this year. But what was the state of the House in November and December? Why, hardly a man could hear himself speaking for the
 62 63 64 65 66
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he considered that the functions of the two Committees would lie in different directions, and that they were not connected the one with the other. There was no ground for interfering with the Committee on contracts, because the Election Committee would be likely to inquire into one or two of the cases which the other Committee had to take into consideration. His right hon. Friend (Mr. Gladstone) had suggested that the Petition of Sir William Russell should be referred to the Committee on Contracts, as it was thought that Committee would judiciously use its discretion in the matter, but since that proposition was made the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Portsmouth (Sir Francis Baring) had informed the House that the Committee had already taken the question into consideration; that they had, in fact, taken the step which it was the intention of his right hon. Friend's Amendment to enable them to take. In these circumstances, his right hon. Friend would probably be of opinion that the Amendment was not now called for, and that the sense of the House should be taken on the main question, as to whether there should be any interference with the inquiry of the Contract Committee.
 MR. BLACK*, in moving the second reading of the Annuity Tax Abolition Bill, said—When last Session I moved the second reading of this Bill, I was reproved for giving no explanations or reasons why it should pass. I do not intend to expose myself to the same reproof on this occasion. At the same time I will endeavour to condense, as much as possible, what I have to say on the subject. I shall confine my observations to Edinburgh, as I am best acquainted with that part of the case. I will not enter into the history of the origin of the tax, but only notice that the Act of 1661 is the ruling Act by which the tax was collected. But this odious tax was largely increased and intensified by a fraudulent collusion between the clergy and the magistrates in 1809, when, without giving notice to the inhabitants, they smuggled into a private Bill a clause by which the clergy overreached the magistrates, and, after long litigation, secured the plunder which the magistrates intended to have devoted to their own purposes. I shall not be surprised if hon. Members imagine that I am only retailing a popular calumny, but I repeat that I am prepared to prove that this is a literal fact, as I
 108 Results of the Census of 1854 with respect to the Religious Establishments in Edinburgh and Leith:— 
 
 Religious Denomination. Places of Worship. Sittings. Attendants, Morning. Attendants, Afternoon. 
 Established 26 19,994 8,674 6,887 
 United Presbyterian 20 20,465 12,792 15,235 
 Free 29 20,830 15,315 15,922 
 Other Denominations 48 20,584 12,105 9,183 
 Total 123 81,873 48,886 47,227 109 s. 110 111 d 112
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that this was by no means a new proposition, and former Governments of which he had been a Member had agreed to the principle of a Bill similar to that contained in the present measure. The difficulty had always
 113 bonâ fide
 MR. W.MILLER  supported the Amendment, stating that he had been instructed by the Provost and Burgesses of Leith to oppose the Bill by every means in his power. He denied that the clergy were open to the charge of having wrung their dues from the people by distraint. The hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Black) professed great reverence for the law, but he had not paid these rates for two years, and his example had not been without its effect. If there was any ground for the complaints of the pressure of this tax they might easily be obviated to a considerable extent by removing these exemptions which were now possessed by members of the legal profession and other classes in Edinburgh.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  saw no use in prolonging the discussion, as the Go-
 118 119
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  in explanation, said, he had not asked the hon. Member for Edinburgh to withdraw his Bill. What he stated was, that he was prepared to vote for the second reading, and that the Government would be prepared, if in office next Session, to introduce a measure of their own which would propose a substitute, and that it would be for the House to decide whether they would prefer their measure of that of the hon. Member for Edinburgh. He wished also just to remark
 122
 MR. HENLEY  expressed the hope that the hon. and learned Member would consent to withdraw the first clause. The subject was one upon which great difference of opinion prevailed, and he thought it would be well if it were thoroughly investigated before a Select Committee. With regard to the other clauses of the Bill he approved generally of their principle, though they were at the same time susceptible of modification and improvement.
 SIR WALTER FARQUHAR , as an old Member of the  corps diplomatique
 MR. WHITESIDE  in moving the second reading of this Bill which, he said, was one of a series of ten Bills which he had introduced for the purpose of amending the criminal law, said he was extremely desirous of learning the intention of the Government on this subject. The principle of one of the clauses in the Bill immediately before the House was that corruption of blood in cases of treason and forfeiture of goods in cases of felony should be abolished. In cases of felony when they hung a man, reluctantly, for committing a great crime, on what principle could they deprive the innocent family of the criminal of any property which he had in his possession at the time of the convic-
 136 137
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he had listened with surprise to the mixture of threat and persuasion by which the concluding observations of the right hon. Gentleman were characterized, and while he should be happy to have the right hon. Gentleman as an auxiliary, he could assure him he did not entertain the least fear of him as an opponent. After the many attempts which had been made to consolidate the criminal law, it was, he was ready to admit, high time that the question should be taken up, and taken up too by the Government of the day, who should be made responsible for dealing with it in a satisfactory manner. It would undoubtedly, therefore, be his duty—and he believed he had the sanction of the Government for saying so—to endeavour, in conjunction with his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General, to discharge through the medium of the Government the important task of putting the criminal law of this country on a sound and rational basis, a position in which it certainly did not at present stand. That work would he speedily under taken, and he trusted that the proofs that it had been pursued in an effective manner would be laid before Parliament at the commencement of next Session. With respect to the question of the
corruption of blood, to which the right hon.
 138
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he should be happy to give the hon. and learned Attorney General any assistance in his power, but he could not give his assent to any measure which was opposed to the principle of the abolition of death punishment for all crimes short of murder and treason. He did not consider that copying the Statute-book was amending the law. If they merely copied and classified the statutes, that might relieve barristers of some labour, but it would be neither amending the law nor abridging the statutes. He was opposed to exceptional legislation in this matter for Ireland; and, indeed, if they assimilated the scale of punishment in the two countries, the necessity for exceptional legislation for that country would almost entirely cease.
 MR. KINNAIRD  also supported the Bill, on the ground of the advantage which the discussions of this House would receive from the intelligence of diplomatic Members in all matters relating to foreign trade.
 LORD ELCHO  explained that he had not objected to the application of the voluntary principle in any way in support of the Established Church; but he had complained that, according to this Bill, the churches of Edinburgh would in future be dependent upon the voluntary system.
 LORD ELCHO  said, that it was with no small curiosity he desired to hear in what way the Government intended to deal with this question; and the course which the Government seemed inclined to take was, in the event of a division, to vote for the present Bill, simply to affirm, as it was represented, that this was a question which ought to be settled. He concurred in the opinion that the question called loudly for settlement; but the principle in the present Bill was dangerous, and no one in favour of a Church Establishment, as he was, could allow the Bill to pass a second reading without opposition. The annuity tax was a question which had been unceasingly agitated in Scotland for a long series of years; it had been the subject of repeated inquiries and reports by Committees and Commissions, and it had long formed the stock-in-trade of the Liberal members from Scotland, and especially of the Members
 114 115 "Although the impost complained of is a tax, and not a rentcharge Tested in the ministers as an endowment, yet it is a tax which the State has guaranteed to the ministers and their successors for their benefit, and, unless the rights even of their successors are dealt with in a spirit of justice and moderation, a feeling of distrust and insecurity will be created as respects other endowments, which will not be limited to the Established Church of Scotland." 116
 MR. BLACK  said, he was quite willing to surrender his "stock-in-trade" in this question into the hands of the Government after his measure had been read a second time; but he trusted that the coming Bill of the Government would abolish the tax altogether.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  saw no good reason why members of the diplomatic profession, because they happened to be in the receipt of small pensions, should be excluded from a seat in the House of Commons, while, upon account of the peculiar information which they possessed, he thought their presence would be of great advantage in dealing with subjects of foreign policy. He therefore trusted the Bill would be carried, and that the hon. Gentleman would have the gratification of doing a substantial and graceful act of justice.
 MR. FINLAY  thought it would be best to refer the measure to a Select Committee.
 MR. ADDERLEY  hoped that the hon. and learned Gentleman would consent to withdraw not only the first clause, but the Bill altogether. A legitimate subject for
 130
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, he had hoped to hear some proposal on the part of the Government for dealing with the subject to which he could have given his assent. He had, however, been greatly disappointed at the statement of the Home Secretary, who called upon them to affirm the principle of the Bill, which involved the entire abolition of the Established Church. He could not help thinking that the Cabinet had fallen into the trap laid for them last Session by the hon. Member when they were anxious to obtain votes to defeat the Reform Bill then before the House. He thought the straightforward course would have been that the Government should have accompanied their offer to introduce a Bill on this subject in the next Session with the condition that the present Bill should be withdrawn. By the course they had taken they had placed themselves in the position of giving their support to a measure which would have no practical result, promising themselves at the same time to introduce something which would be wholly different next year. The present Bill was in every way objectionable; but he could not condemn in language sufficiently strong the proposition by which it was sought to lay sweeping and sacrilegious hands on the funds collected at church doors for the poor. He gave his cordial support to the Amendment which had been proposed by the noble Lord.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the principle of the Bill was the unconditional abolition of the annuity tax, which had hitherto been appropriated to the maintenance of the clergy in Edinburgh. He, for one, must decline to vote for this abstraction of means that were not excessive, without some substitute. The Bill aimed at the very principle of an Established Church. He was far from saying that the voluntary system was not a proper system upon which the means of religious accommodation for the poor should be extended; but we all know this, that great as the extension of such accommodation was, and had been of late years, it was inadequate to the demands of the poor, and he was therefore strongly opposed to leaving the Church entirely dependent upon the casual and uncertain benevolence of individuals, instead of upon some fixed and assured means of support. By voting for this Bill Her Majesty's Government could not escape from this position; they accepted service under the hon. Member for Birmingham. Those who believed that the Church Establishment should be maintained out of public funds, and not left dependent upon casual charity, would vote against this Bill; and if the Government would take service under the hon. Member for Birmingham and the advocates of the voluntary principle, by voting in its favour, the country would take care that the Government wore a livery appropriate to that service. The hon. Member for Birmingham governed the Government, or at least those Members of it who wished to qualify that principle, and there was therefore no resource for those who maintained the principle of an Established Church but to adopt a course equally firm and unmistakeable. The
 120
 MR. MURE  thought that, the Government having promised to introduce a measure of their own next Session, the wiser course would be to allow that discussion at once to drop. There was no use, under such circumstances, in going to a division to affirm the principle of the Bill if there was to be no further progress.
 MR. BALL  said, that if the first clause were withdrawn the Bill would be useless, for that clause embodied the whole spirit of the measure.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Devonport had laid down a perfectly constitutional view on this question. The Act of Queen Anne might have operated as a great safeguard in those times; but at this day public feeling had done away with
 134
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, that the country was much indebted to the Attorney General for the distinct and explicit statement he had made upon this important question, and also the right hon. and learned Gentlemen opposite for the interest he had always taken in it. It was essential that Government should itself deal with the question, and he strongly objected to its being referred to a Commission, because that very fact stifled law reform; for when in such a case law reform was urged, it was frequently said that the whole matter was being examined by a Commission. There were many points which should be immediately taken into consideration by the Government—such as giving power to the jury to view the ground where a murder had been committed, which was often very essential to a proper understanding of a case. In reference to the expediency of passing an Act to avoid the forfeiture of property in the case of felony, such a measure would be highly beneficial. The only effect of the present state of the law was to induce prisoners to make assignments of their property before their trial, and their unfortunate families were in consequence often deprived of their means of livelihood. He recollected a learned Judge say in while on circuit that it had always puzzled him to know how a certain class of attorneys, not in a very respectable position
 139
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  seconded the Motion.
 MR. G. CLIVE  did not say the Bill would not have afforded a way of getting out of the difficulties which had beset them for so many years, but he thought the House would hardly be inclined to consider such a proposition when they had already adopted the principle of total abolition. He hoped the hon. Gentleman would consent to withdraw the Bill, especially as, if even the principle was agreed to, it could not be passed this Session.
 MR. G. CLIVE  said, it was the opinion of the Government that the Bill should not be gone into, so far as the first clause was concerned, at any rate during the present Session. He had always understood his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Locke) in the sense in which he had spoken that day; and if he would agree to expunge the first clause in Committee he would support the second reading of the Bill. One or two of the other clauses required modification; but that was a question for the Committee.
 MR. HUNT  said, they could hardly expect at that period of the Session to decide upon the relative merits of weight and measure without a Select Committee to inquire into the subject. As the only point of difference seemed to be upon the first clause he would suggest to his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Locke) that he should consent to strike out that clause in Committee on the Bill, upon the understanding
 128
 MR. M'CANN  said, that in  The Times
 MR. WILSON  said, that the House
 133
 MR. BRADY  did not see what was the use of reading this Bill a second time if the first clause was afterwards to be withdrawn. He knew that the Bill would prove injurious to the people of Ireland, because there com was universally sold by weight, and even in this country purchasers judged of the value of corn by its weight, though nominally they bought by measure. He hoped the hon. and learned Member would withdraw his Bill.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, they were told on high authority not to put their trust in princes. Let him advise the hon. Member for Edinburgh not to put his trust in Governments. This was just one of those questions which a Government never dealt with satisfactorily until it had been driven to the last extremity, and it was not clear that that extremity had in this case yet arrived. What had been their experience in regard to church rates? Ever since he had first sat in Parliament, now sixteen or seventeen years ago, they had had Governments proposing to settle that question; but they had never touched it except to make a complete mess of it, and to disgust both sides of the House with their attempts. The consequence was, the subject was now left in the hands of the hon. Member for Tavistock (Sir John Trelawny) just as it stood many years since; and that hon. Gentleman, and those who went honestly along with him for its principle, had alone any chance of passing a proper measure through the House. He would not, however, ask the hon. Member for Edinburgh to reject the suggestion now made to him, because the same course must probably
 121
 MR. JOHN LOCKE , in moving the second reading of the Bill said, it was almost entirely identical with that introduced in the last Session. He believed that the House would agree to all the propositions, except, perhaps, one which had been the subject of dissensions. The question of weights and measures was considered by a Select Committee of the House of Commons as long ago as 1834, and the result was a report in favour of corn being in future sold by measure with the test of weight per bushel. Measure or weight alone would be no test of value. A pound of feathers weighed as much as a pound of lead; and a pound of bad corn weighed the same as a pound of good. To afford the buyer a proper guarantee for quality as well as quantity the tests of measure and weight should be combined. For instance, if he gave an order for such a quantity of corn to weigh so many pounds per quarter, he there had quantity and quality combined. The first clause of the Bill, however, provided merely that corn should be sold by measure. The Acts for the purpose of the tithe commutation rent charge and the corn returns were all on the principle that corn should be sold by measure; and the introduction of a new system of selling by weight would be attended with obvious inconvenience. From certain returns which had been laid before Parliament, it appeared that in 243 places corn was sold by the imperial bushel; in 14 places by local measures; and in 28 places by weight—the gross number of places being 285. Corn, therefore, being almost universally sold by measure, the object of the first clause was to remove the exceptions, and to enact that corn should everywhere be sold by the Imperial bushel, and not by
 125 Geo. 126
 MR. JOHN LOCKE  said, that it would be perfectly easy to withdraw the first clause, and pass the rest of the Bill. If the hon. Gentleman wished him (Mr. Locke) to introduce a Bill for enforcing the use of the Imperial measure throughout the country, he could only say he must decline to attempt such a task. The hon. Gentleman who undertook it would next have the bottle question about his ears, he would then be assailed by the fruiterers with their fruit meters, and he questioned whether he would ever enjoy a quiet night afterwards. Another hon. Gentleman had argued entirely in his (Mr. Locke's) favour. All he contended for was, that corn should be sold by the quarter, consisting of bushels each weighing 631bs. If the hon. Gentleman would consent to the second reading, he (Mr. Locke) would undertake to withdraw the first clause in Committee.
 MR. JOHN LOCKE  explained that what he had stated to his hon. Friend was that if the first clause was generally dissented from by the House he was not anxious to press it, and that in such case the clause might be entirely dissevered from the remainder of the Bill.
 CAPTAIN LEICESTER VERNON , as a representative of a corn-growing county,
 129
 MR. BASS  said, that the advocates of weights on the one hand and the advocates of measures on the other were so nearly divided in that House, that he did not look forward with any confidence to such a measure as the present being passed in consequence of the appointment of a Committee next year. He did not think that the proposed Committee would be able to adjust their differences, nor did he believe that any more important or convincing evidence would be obtained by such a Committee than had been supplied by the Committee which sat upon the subject in the year 1834.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he did not rise to propose the actual rejection of the Bill, but to ask what were the intentions of the Government with respect to it. The Bill proposed to accomplish three objects. To the first of these, which related to local arrangements in the town of Montrose, there could be no objection. The second of its propositions, which he believed to be objectionable, continued the payment of the tax by the town of Leith for the benefit of the clergy of Edinburgh. But the third, which was the vital principle of the Bill, was the entire disendowment of the Established Church of Scotland, so far as the town of Edinburgh was concerned. The argument of the hon. Gentleman was, that those who wanted a church should pay for it. This was, in fact, an assertion of the voluntary principle, and he wished to know if the Government were prepared to concur in that doctrine? If the principle was good for Edinburgh, it was good for the whole of Scotland; and if it was good for Scotland, it was good for the rest of the United Kingdom. It was therefore most important that the Government should declare their intentions on the subject, and whether they were prepared to give their sanction to a measure, the object of which was of the character which he had described. If the Bill had provided any proper substitute for the annuity tax instead of the voluntary system, no doubt it would be accepted unanimously by the House.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES , in rising to move the Second Reading of this Bill, said, it had long been felt as a grievance that while gentlemen who had earned pensions as members of the Government or of the military and naval professions might sit in that House, there should be a
 131 132
 MR. SPOONER  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. ALCOCK  proposed to adjourn the debate to Wednesday next.
 MR. ALCOCK , in moving the second reading of the Bill, said, his object was to facilitate the voluntary commutation of church rates in the same way as tithes were commuted. He laid great stress on the voluntary arrangement of the church rates, for he was satisfied if it were not voluntarily done it would not be done at all. He proposed to have a body of Commissioners—he did not care how they were formed, he would suggest the Charity Commissioners—who should have power, whenever a parish called them in, to arbitrate in the matter, to look over the church-rate expenses of the parish, say for fifty years, to see what were the yearly expenses; to judge whether any of those expenses could be spared, too see in what state of repair the church was, and to determine, under all these circumstances, what the parish ought annually to provide for this purpose; and on the parish showing that they had provided a fund which would meet that demand in all time coming, the Commissioners should then have power to discharge the parish from the payment of church rates for ever. It might be said that the parishioners could form such a fund now. So they could, but then they had no assurance that church rates would not still be levied, and it was to prevent this from being done that he proposed his Bill, which
 135
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, the difficulty of finding a substitute for that tax was admitted on all sides, and it was impossible for any private Member to deal with that question effectually. As, therefore, the Government were ready to take the subject into their own hands, and to introduce a measure upon it early next Session, nothing could be gained by pressing the present Motion to a division. On the other hand, such a step might prejudice the prospect of a reasonable compromise when the subject came to be discussed in another year.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he had certainly taken a different view of the conversation. His hon. and learned Friend stated that it was not his intention to move the first clause; whereupon he (Mr. Horsfall) observed, "Then it becomes a mere Weights and Measures Bill, to which I have not the slightest objection." If, then, his hon. and learned Friend pressed the first clause he should certainly give his support to the Amendment. If, on the other hand, he consented to strike out the clause he would as cordially give his vote in favour of the remaining portion of the Bill, which he considered to be most essential for the regulation of the weights and measures of the country.
 MR. HORSFALL  thought that the hon. and learned Member for Southwark had not treated him fairly in moving the second reading of this Bill. The hon. and learned Gentleman had assured him that it was not his intention to move the adoption of the first clause—which would have made the Bill a mere Weights and Measures Bill—and upon that understanding he had told him that he had no objection to the Bill. If the hon. and learned Member was willing to withdraw this clause, he should not object to the other portions; but if the hon. and learned Member persisted in supporting that clause he should feel it his duty to vote for the Amendment.
 MR. BAXTER  looked upon the proposal as an attempt to settle by a compromise that which had been already settled by public opinion in a different manner. He objected to any adjournment of this measure, for he did not conceive that there would be found a sufficient number of members who would support to a successful issue the Bill. He should therefore move that it be read a second time that day three months.
 MR. BAXTER  hoped the hon. Member for Edinburgh would accede to the proposal of the Government, and abstain from proceeding further with his Bill that Session than the second reading. At the same time he had no confidence that any compromise would be effectual on the subject.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  thought that members of the military and naval professions were just as likely to be biased in favour of the Crown as those of the diplomatic service, and he could not see why a different rule should be applied to one body, than prevailed with reference to the other.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  suggested that advantage should be taken of the present Bill to vest the appointment of inspectors in the magistrates and council of each borough.
 MR. CAIRD  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. CAIRD  protested against the accusation which had been made with regard to the Bill of his hon. Friend, that it involved a robbery of the Church and of the poor. At present the most wealthy classes in Edinburgh were altogether exempt from contributions to the support of the clergy of the Established Church, and he thought that exemption ought not to be maintained. Yet these persons were loudest in their denunciations of the measure. It had been said the effect of this Bill would be to rob the poor of Scotland; but they were now provided for by law, and being totally independent of the collections at the church doors, this Bill would not in the slightest degree affect their interests. He was glad to learn that the Government intended to take up this question, and he hoped they would settle it in a satisfactory manner.
 MR. CAIRD  said, that the question of weights and measures was one of considerable importance and required great deliberation. It was in fact a question between the east and west of England, all buyers and sellers in the west and in Ireland being in favour of weight, and all in the east in favour of measure. At this late period of the Session it would be impossible to consider the question with that attention which it deserved, and, as the hon. Member for Drogheda (Mr. M'Cann) had withdrawn his Bill for the establishment of the system of weight, he thought that the present measure should be postponed also, in order that the two might be referred together to a Select Committee next Session. He moved as an Amendment, that the Bill should be read that day three months.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  also recommended his hon. and learned Friend to adopt this course. He thought there would then be no objection to the second reading. He hoped, however, that his hon? and learned Friend would give an undertaking to bring in next Session a Bill for the purpose of carrying out the object of the first clause, with a view to its being referred to a Select Committee.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, that the time had arrived when the House must deal with this question with a view to settling it. Attempts at compromise had hitherto failed. He should be extremely glad if by some concessions on both sides the question could be settled; if, however, no such compromise could be effected, he would not be deterred by the taunt that he was sanctioning the voluntary principle from giving his support to this Bill. The tax was unequal in its incidence, and was open to all the objections against both Church Rates and the Established Church of Ireland. So long as it existed in its present form it would always be insecure; and it was time for the Legislature to interfere to put an end to the tax. The measure introduced in 1853 was highly objectionable, as merely shifting the burden to the Consolidated Fund. No benefit would result from reducing the tax and making its incidence more equal by extending it to all classes. This would only excite a more general opposition. Any attempt at compromise was hopeless; in a large city like Edinburgh, the voluntary system might safely be relied on for raising the few thousand pounds which were paid to the clergy of the Established Church. The experience of the Free Church and
 117
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he had communicated with the Commissioners on the subject, and he had received a written explanation from the Secretary, he had also had an interview with Sir George Clerk, the Chairman of the Commission. He understood that the Commissioners had come to no Resolution on the subject, but they had under consideration such arrangements as would be most conducive to the ends of the inquiry. On the one hand, they had to consider the interruption and expense
 154
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, it was impossible to say when the inquiry would be likely to terminate, as it had not as yet been commenced. It was proposed at present to admit the reporters and all properly appointed persons; but the public would receive due notice of the final arrangements come to.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the question had remained unsettled for a long and inconvenient period of time, and it was very desirable that it should be settled. A correspondence bad taken place between the Treasury and the City with respect to the rights of the Crown over a portion of the Site, and he was able to state that the City had prepared a plan by which a considerable portion of the Site—the chief portion in fact—over which the claim of the Crown extended, would be dedicated to the enjoyment and recreation of the public. The plan also involved a portion of the ground belonging to the city.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the plan in question involved a portion of the ground belonging to the City, and also a small portion of the site belonging to the Crown, which would be used as a Dead-meat Market.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  in reply, read the explanation furnished to him by the Chief Commissioner of Police on the subject, which stated that the regulations to prevent obstructions at Hyde Park Corner were printed in July, 1858, and that they directed that no omnibus or cab should stop on the north side of the road between St. George's Hospital and Hamilton Place. By an order of June 17 in the present year the order was so far relaxed as to allow cabs to stop to set down or to take up fares in front of the railings of Apsley House. It was necessary to enforce that regulation to order to prevent obstructions to the traffic at that point, and consequently accidents. Similar regulations were made at Cumberland Gate and other crowded parts of the metropolis. There was no intention whatever to interfere with the convenience of individuals, but the regulations in question were adopted for the general advantage and security of the public.
 MR. RIDLEY  said, he wished to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to take any steps during the present Session to carry out the Recommendations of the Select Committee on Public monies, and more particularly with reference to the appointment of an annual Committee of
 156
 MR. PEACOCK  said, he would beg to ask the Chairman of the Committee of Selection what course they propose to take with regard to Election Committees?
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the Government would have no objection to appoint a morning sitting on Tuesday, to commence at twelve o'clock, for the purpose.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he could assure his hon. Friend that he had no wish to thrust the Bill down the throats of the House. The Bill had been postponed for many years, and he was not prepared to say that it might not be postponed for another year; but when his hon. Friend spoke of a month's delay being of no importance, it was right the House should understand that if the Bill were not considered this Session there was no probability of its being considered till after next Easter. The Bill had not emanated from the present or the
 160
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that though the House had had the pleasure of listening to a very able debate which embraced a vast range of subjects, yet the real question before them was, whether it was absolutely necessary to impose this addition of 4 d. d. onus probandi d. 223 d. d.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  thought that, on a fair consideration of the public finances, it would be seen that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had adopted the best mode of meeting the present difficulty. The hon. Baronet had said, that former Chancellors of the Exchequer had been in the habit of under-estimating the national income; but that was, at all events, a fault on the right side, for whatever balance there might be in the Exchequer at the end of the year was carried to the credit of the public in the following year, and, therefore, tended to reduce taxation—the Chancellor of the Exchequer might have borrowed the amount he required, or might have raised it by indirect taxation; but he thought he had adopted the most prudent course in resorting to a tax which only imposed a little self-denial, and self-restraint upon those who were called upon to pay it, while the borrowing of £4,000,000 would have occasioned a drain upon the capital of the country. The case of the poor clerk with £100 a year had been dwelt upon; but surely it was better that such a man should pay a moderate income tax than be made to contribute in the shape of heavier duties on the articles he consumed.
 MR. SPOONER  said, be wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he meant to make any alteration this year in reference to the stamps on bankers' cheques? He was also anxious to know whether the right hon. Gentleman proposed that a tenant whose occupation would expire at Michaelmas should pay the whole of the additional income tax, and that his successor should altogether escape that charge, or whether he intended to apportion it between the incoming and the outgoing tenant?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  expressed a hope that if the increased income tax was to extend to incomes of £100, the Chancellor of the Exchequer would introduce a clause in the Bill to exempt the wages of working men, on whom the impost was a great oppression. If the right hon. Gentleman did not do so he should feel it his duty to bring the subject before the House.
 MR. ROEBUCK  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer, before he answered the hon. Member's question, to state what difference there was, in regard to the question of imposing this tax, between a man who drove a quill all day—whether what he received was called wages or salary—and a roan who drove a plane.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that when the Chancellor of the Exchequer stated that he should require a certain sum for the service of the year it was very difficult for the House to refuse the amount. It was indeed true that it sometimes happened that the revenue exceeded the Estimate, but it would be dangerous to speculate on such a result. If they wished to make ends meet they must, there fore, be prepared to vote the whole 4 d. maximum minimum d. d. 226
 MR. FRANK CROSSLEY  said, he felt inclined to think that the House had in reality very little control over the expenditure, for during the last six years it had scarcely succeeded in striking off one Vote per annum. The cost of our armaments was most enormous, amounting to £26,000,000, and of the amount charged for the army not more than £3,750,000 was charged on account of wages paid to the men. Austria employed four times as many soldiers as this country, and he wanted to know why the money of this country could not be employed as economically as that of Austria. A great portion of the charge for the navy went for the non-effective service. He thought more value ought to be obtained for the money expended. With regard to the question of the income tax the right hon. Gentleman in 1853 showed the great difficulty of making a difference between incomes arising from professions and trades and incomes arising from property, and certainly nobody could make out a case better than the right hon. Gentleman, and he was afraid there was no chance of beating him out of his argument. The expenditure
 227
 MR. HUBBARD  expressed his disappointment that the only means the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer could find to extricate himself from the financial difficulty of the day was by an aggravated use of that obnoxious and most mischievous impost—an unreformed income tax. As it appeared to him that the whole fiscal policy of this country tended to shift the burden of our imposts from indirect to direct taxation, it was the more important that this mode of taxation should be subjected by the House to such a severe scrutiny as would make it as equitable in operation as any other tax that could be devised. It was humiliating to the Government to find that they made such large use of a system of taxation, the injustice of which there was not a man among them that was not ready to admit. This arose either from a want of science or a disregard of justice, neither of which was he willing to ascribe to his right hon. Friend who at the present time had charge of the finances of the country. But he rose more immediately for the purpose of calling attention to the case of the holders of long and terminable annuities. The amount of those annuities he believed to be correctly stated at £2,000,000, and when the annuitants were paid their dividends for the present year the House would have seen the last of them. Those annuities, in fact, represented an old debt which the Government of the day incurred many years ago for the purpose of meeting a national emergency—the last instalment of which would be paid off in the course of the present year. He believed he was correct in stating that 98 parts out of 100 of this payment represented capital rather than interest; and he held that Government had no more right to diminish the capital of those annuities than they were at liberty
 228 s. d. s. d.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : This discussion, although not a long one, has covered a considerable breadth of ground, and included a variety of questions besides the one raised by the
 229 d. d. ergo bonâ fides; 230 231 d. d. d. 232 233 d. d.
 MR. T. BARING  observed, that the allusion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the manner in which the increased income tax was levied previous to the Russian war was very unfortunate, and might lead to the suspicion that he intended to pursue the course adopted upon that occasion—namely, making an addition to the income tax in the second as well as in the first half of the year. Did he propose now to levy an additional 4 d. d. 234 d.
 MR. DISRAELI : As bearing upon the Motion of the hon. Baronet the Member for Evesham, and also upon the course taken by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in so far as respects the estimates both of income and expenditure, I would refer to the case of that particular estimate which the right hon. Gentleman noticed so fully in the course of this evening. In the observations I made to-night, I spoke of a surplus of £1,500,000 in the estimate which I made last year. The right hon. Gentleman in his speech said he knew nothing of this surplus of £1,500,000—spoke of it as a fancied surplus—and observed that at the conclusion of the year we found that the actual surplus of income over expenditure was only £800,000. Now, the facts of this case furnish, I think, a complete answer to the Motion of the hon. Member for Evesham, as well as to the Chancellor of the Exchequer himself. What happened after the financial statement of 1858 was made? Two demands were made upon the Government, neither of which could have been foreseen, one arising from some remaining payments for the Russian war, and the other on account of the war with China. The amount of these was certainly not much less than £800,000, and thus reduced the surplus to the amount which the right hon. Gentleman had described. I am sure the hon. Baronet the Member for Evesham must feel that a Chancellor of the Exchequer, with no documents before him to lead him to expect that a claim for the Russian war would arise, could not take such expenditure into account in his estimates, and that therefore in all such cases a wide margin must be taken, otherwise a fallacious estimate of revenue will often be the consequence. But this is also, as I have said, an answer to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, because these demands for the China and Russian wars could again arise, and the surplus of £1,500,000 in my estimate was a  bonâ fide 235 236
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the question now raised was one of the difficulties inherent in a uniform income tax. It was true that if the tax could be recast and re-adjusted an exact standard might be set up by which the value of every annuity ought to be reckoned. But such a scheme of income tax differed altogether from that now before the Committee. The existing impost was a uniform tax which entirely declined to take cognizance of any return of capital in the form of income. Income was the sole test which it recognized, and every one who chose to have his capital returned to him in the form of income, which was the case of every annuitant for life or a term of years, knew that he did so subject to any tax which Parliament might impose. Were this Motion to be adopted it would lead to inextricable confusion, and the Com-
 238
 MR. HUBBARD  said, that the annuities referred to which were charged with the rate of 8 d.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the case of the long annuitant would exactly correspond with that of the fundholder.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, that the Committee did not understand from the right hon. Gentleman whether the tax was prospective or retrospective. With regard to these Long Annuities, it seemed to be retrospective, and levied, in fact, upon a past dividend, for they would not be in existence during the last three months of the year.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not understand what the hon. Baronet meant by a retrospective tax. In one sense this tax was certainly retrospective, because it was levied in respect of a term which commenced on the 1st of April, whereas this was the 21st of July. But the same might be said of most of the Income Tax Acts passed in this country. The first passed was on the 22nd of June, 1842, and was therefore retrospective in precisely the same sense. The tax, however, was not levied on the year's but on the half-year's income.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, it was clear that you could not, as regarded the new income tax, draw a distinction between the old and the new one, and if you subjected the Long Annuities to the tax, the argument went to show that as they expired in 1860, they ought only to be charged at the rate of 3 d. 239
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I only said that it would not be just to adopt the Amendment.
 MR. WALPOLE  was glad to hear that, because they would not be precluded from that point in the consideration of the income tax next year; and if it was reimposed it must be rearranged, so as to make some difference between fluctuating and fixed incomes.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  confessed he did vote for the income tax of former years; but he would suggest that the nature of these propositions was somewhat different to the present. They had now no guarantee whatever that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not come again within the year for another 4 d.
 MR. DISRAELI  then proposed the omission of the last sentence of the Resolution, which provides that the whole addition shall be paid with the first moiety of the tax. He had assented to the raising of the sum of £4,000,000 by the addition to the income tax; but he objected to making the whole payable in the first six months. He proposed that it should be distributed over the whole twelve months.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I regret that the right hon. Gentleman has made this Motion, for, though he says he assents to the raising of £4,000,000 for the necessities of the year, by this addition to the income tax, in fact, he does not assent to it. The Ways and Means of the year are the moneys paid in the year, and taxes which are granted by Parliament to be paid in a future year, whatever else they may be, are not Ways and Means of the year. The hon. Member for Huntingdon (Mr. T. Baring) says I ought to be content with getting £2,000,000 this year, and £2,000,000 in 1860–61, because in 1854 I proposed to the House of
 240 241
 MR. THOMAS BARING  said, he wished to set himself right with the right hon. Gentleman and the Committee. The right hon. Gentleman had charged his right hon. Friend the Member for Buckinghamshire with wishing to borrow money, and to borrow it in the most objectionable form, and he had referred to the course pursued by the right hon. Gentleman in the year 1854, for the purpose of showing that he had himself in that year carried the principle in dispute further than was at that moment suggested by his right hon. Friend. If the right hon. Gentleman meant to say that such was the state of the country, in the opinion of Her Majesty's Government that it was important they should have the
 242 d.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he did not see how it would be possible to levy this tax on the Consols, one half year of which was already past and gone, the next half year not being payable till January next. The effect would be that the holders of Consols would only pay half the tax. However, if the money must be got in within the year, the House could not do otherwise than agree to the proposal. However inconvenient the proceeding might be, still, if the Government really wanted the money within the financial year, he would not refuse it them, although money to be received in the next financial year could be made applicable by Exchequer bills. The right hon. Gentleman's words certainly held out a very alarming prospect of something looming in the distance.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , with reference to a remark of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Huntingdon, denied that he had any "foregone conclusion" as to the taxes that must be imposed next year. It was his official duty to labour to keep down the expenditure as much as he could. That was a very unhopeful task just now, and he should not he able to succeed in it without help from both sides of the House. He would always urge the House as far as possible to meet the burdens of the day in the day.
 MR. DISRAELI : This question has, in consequence of the observations made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, assumed a very different and a very serious Commons its present and prospective posi-
 243 244
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The right hon. Gentleman has given in the course of his animated speech what I suppose he thinks a correct version of something that had fallen previously from me. He says that I have professed—and he even went the length of putting words into my mouth—that I had made a full and complete statement of the coming financial exigencies of the empire. That is what I understand the right hon. Gentleman to state. But even on this very night I stated as plainly as I could, in following the right hon. Gentleman, that such was the state into which the public finances had been brought—very much by the practice of making prospective engagements which has been a growing evil for several years—I stated then that, even with regard to English finances, it was not in my power to convey fully to the House of
 245 246
 MR. DEEDES  felt called upon to consider what was the best course to follow. It seemed to him that they stood in this position. The Chancellor of the Exchequer made a statement the other night showing a deficiency of £4,000,000, which must be made up in some way or other, and he proposed that the deficiency should be made up by income tax. He (Mr. Deedes) wished to see the time when they might look at the whole taxation of the country with a view to putting it on a sound and substantial footing; and if they threw impediments in the way of those who had executive duties to carry out this would probably be deferred to a later period than they desired. However tempting the proposition made against the proposals of the Government might be he felt bound to resist it, because he should be throwing away a chance. In matters of this kind they were justified in throwing on the Exchequer the responsibility of the mode in which they should raise the Ways and Means.
 MR. PULLER  said, the alteration would vitiate the sureties and render necessary new bonds in every case. As it would be the doom of the small maltsters, and would throw the whole trade into confusion, he doubted whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer's expectations would be realized.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it must be admitted that if ever the system of malt credits was to be modified at all, it could not be modified more gently than was now proposed. It was proposed to reduce the credit only by six weeks, and to allow discount in respect of those six weeks, in consideration of the late period at which the financial statement was made. A strong intimation had even been thrown out from the other side that the maltsters ought to have been dealt with more stringently. He would examine into the matter of the bonds, but he did not anticipate any serious difficulty.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer had treated the maltsters too lightly, and hoped he would take the hopgrowers in hand.
 MR. DODSON  remarked that the hop-growers were in quite a different position from the maltsters, and it would be unjust and impolitic to make them pay sooner. The maltster could always make malt, but the hop grower was not always sure of his crop of hops.
 THE O'DONOGHOE  said it would have been better not to have introduced the Bill at all than to withdraw it.
 LORD FERMOY  denounced the Bill as ill-constituted and ill-timed, and as a retrograde step in the direction of an effete system of legislation. It was a piece of Kip Van Winkle legislation, which came into existence after the necessities for it had long gone by. He did not object to the Chancellorship being thrown open to Roman Catholics, but then the office itself ought to be changed for the purpose, and made a secular office.
 MR. BRADY , whilst he was prepared to advocate the admission of Roman Catholics barristers to the highest honours of the profession, was opposed to the present Bill, which he considered as an attempt to bribe them.
 COLONEL DICKSON , who moved the adjournment of the debate on the former occasion, expressed a hope that the Govern-
 250
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the Bill was introduced by the right hon. Baronet (Sir W. Somerville) without any concert with the Government, and it was withdrawn without concert with them.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  repeated that his only reason for withdrawing the measure was his conviction of the impossibility of carrying it this Session.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  justified the course he had previously taken of moving, as an Amendment, that the Bill be read a second time that day three months. Nothing was more calculated to rouse the Protestant feeling of the country than the measure in question.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  hoped, that at that late period of the night (twenty minutes past one after midnight) the hon. Member for Sheffield would withdraw the Bill [Mr. HADFIELD refused.] He would then move that the Chairman report progress, and asked leave to sit again. - Motion made, and Question put, "That the Chairman do report progress and ask leave to sit again."
 MR. BANKS STANHOPE , observing that it was quite impossible that the Bill could be properly considered at that late hour, moved the adjournment of the debate.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  hoped that this course would not be persisted in after the declared opinion of the Committee. It was taking undue advantage of the rules of the House,
 MR. SPOONER  reminded the noble Lord that he himself had expressed an opinion against taking an opposed measure at a late hour of the night.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he could not think it reasonable to proceed with this Bill under the circumstances.
 MR. HADFIELD  then proposed to postpone further progress in the measure till Wednesday.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the matter was gone into very deliberately last Session. The cause of the state of the Thames was the making of the river a common sewer, at the same time that the water companies were abstracting more and more water from the upper part of the river; and the proper remedy was already in the course of construction in the shape of the intercepting sewers. He hoped the Motion would not be pressed.
 MR. TITE  said, the Metropolitan Board had already accomplished a portion of this remedy, and by next year considerable progress would be made.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, it had not been his intention to offer to the House any observations on the present occasion, nor should he have done so but that some remarks had in the course of their speeches fallen from the two noble Lords opposite to which he was anxious to allude. The present discussion had turned in a great measure on the subject of foreign affairs, and he supposed it was the nature of the subject that had induced the two noble Lords to make such a display of their diplomatic skill. Indeed, three distinguished members of the Government had risen to address the House, partly, as it would appear, to attack the policy of the late Government, and partly to explain the meaning of a phrase which had fallen from the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton a few days ago, when he had stated that his foreign policy was the same as that which had been pursued by his predecessors in office. Now, it could not, he thought, fail to strike hon. Members that a very convenient opportunity would have been presented to the noble Lords to whom he alluded to make their comments on the policy of the late Government, if the Motion of which the noble Lord the Member for Haddingtonshire (Lord Elcho) had given notice had been allowed to come on. When, however, it was proposed to proceed with that Motion, the noble Lord the Member for London declared it to be his conviction that it would be inconvenient to the public service that such a discussion should take place. The Motion was one, he should remind the House, which had distinct reference to the conduct of the late Government, and it was framed by the noble Lord who was its author because he thought it an act of justice and he deemed it to be his duty as an independent Member of Parliament to ask the House of Commons to pronounce a decision as to the policy which the Earl of Malmesbury had pursued. A debate up-
 215 216 217 Cagliari 218
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down contended that the policy of England was to obtain good government for other countries. He was sorry to say that there was a good deal of bad government everywhere; and if that policy of interference were indeed to be the policy of the Government, and if the hon. Gentleman were the faithful expositer of the noble Lord, he was afraid we were about to embark upon troubled waters. There was no principle of the law of nations which would justify our interference in the government of other countries, whether those governments were bad or good. He had never heard a sensible man speak of the war between France and Austria who did not say that from New Year's-day, when the Emperor addressed the Austrian Ambassador, it was the intention of France to interfere with the affairs of Italy. That speech bore a singular analogy to the speech of the First Emperor to Lord Whitworth, and from that time forth some interference in the affairs of Italy was expected in France. It would be necessary for the House to have before it the documents to show what were the terms of peace lately agreed upon. And then would arise the question, whether the terms of peace now obtained, after ten years of suffering, were not inferior in utility to Italy, to the terms of peace proposed to Lord Palmerston ten years ago, and refused by the noble Lord because Venice was not made a free State, and because an Austrian Archduke was to govern the smaller States?
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  answered in the negative.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that on coming into office he found a comprehensive measure, which he did not think it possible to carry this Session, and the present Bill was simply confined to matters as regarded which there would not be any controversy. He hoped therefore the hon. Gentleman would withdraw his Motion for adjourning the debate, so that the Bill might be read a second time. He would undertake to fix a day for the Committee sufficiently distant to allow of a full consideration of the Bill.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  rose to order. He believed it was out of order on the Motion for going into a Committee of Ways and Means to raise a discussion on a Bill of a totally distinct character.
 LORD ELCHO  said, that before the Speaker left the Chair he wished to advert to what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet the Chairman of the Committee of Selection. The right hon. Gentleman had assured Members on panels 4 and 5 that they need not be under any alarm that they would be required to act on Election Committees this Session. He (Lord Elcho) could not help thinking that the same assurance might be given to the Gentlemen on panels 1, 2, and 3. He made the suggestion quite disinterestedly, as he was on panel 5, but he thought that no public good would arise from having Election Committees sitting before the separation of Parliament this Session. If he were rightly informed, there was no immediate necessity for them, and no expense would be saved by having them sitting before the prorogation. When Members were asked to take an oath to do justice in these election petitions, he doubted whether they could conscientiously say they would weigh the evidence cautiously and attentively when the Thames was in its present state, and the thermomoter 99° in the shade. The sitting of the Committees this Session might give rise to great inconvenience; for, supposing any of them had not finished its labours when the House rose, it would cease to sit. There was an impression abroad that they could sit during the recess; but he believed that was not the case, for if there happened to be a refractory witness, rendering an order of the Speaker and the presence of the Sergeant-
 159
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, the detachment of the 41st which had suffered so severely at, Trinidad had been relieved, but of course that measure did not effect any improvement in a sanitary point of view, for one force was merely substituted for another. The right hon. and gallant Member who preceded him in office (General Peel) sent a detailed series of very minute queries to Trinidad with reference to the state of the barracks, but no reply to them had yet been received. In the meantime, he had written to Trinidad to ascertain what sites were available to which the men could at once be removed, and what healthy sites could be obtained for the erection of new barracks. He had also requested to be informed whether the present barracks could be sold to advantage,
 157
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the iron steam frigate now building was, by the terms of the contract, to be launched in eleven months from the date of the contract, and completed for sea, with the exception of the masting, in three months afterwards.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I wish only to add a few words to what has been said, and principally to observe how fully I concur with the hon. Member for Birmingham in the sentiments which he has expressed. I confess that I have seen with pain the attempt that has been made to induce a feeling in this country against the Sovereign, and, I must say, against the people of France—attempts which can only produce on their part a feeling of animosity
 204 205 206
 MR. AYRTON  was sure that the Liberal Members would give a certificate to the right hon. Gentleman that he had been very anxious to slip the Bill through at the end of the Session, but that his intention had been frustrated by them.
 MR. DISRAELI :—Sir,before you leave the chair I wish to make one or two observations on the present financial condition of the country, which it will be more convenient, perhaps, that I should make now than when we are in Committee. It is scarcely necessary for me to advert to the conduct of the national finances by the late Government, and to the condition in which we left them, because the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer has stated generally, what took place under our Administration with respect to the finances, so fairly that I am not disposed in any way to question his statement,
 161 162 d. d. d. d. 163 164 d. 165 166 d. d. 167 168 169 170 171 172 173 174 175 176 177 178 179
 MR. NEWDEGATE  asked whether the Government had any scheme in contemplation for the establishment of a penal colony to receive those convicts whose period of penal servitude was longer than was found compatible with their health in prison.
 MR. SELWYN  hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary would not press the Bill. Two of its clauses militated against the rights of cathedral churches, and involved the principle of centralization. He should support the Motion for adjournment.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury when Class 7 of the Estimates will be printed, and also why the Estimates were not all printed and presented together, in order that Members may be aware what business may be expected to come on during the Session?
 MR. G. W. HOPE , as one of the Members of the House whose return was petitioned against, protested against the suggestion of the noble Lord. The Committee in his (Mr. Hope's) case was appointed; inquiries had been made which induced him to believe that there was no good foundation for the petition, and he and other hon. Members in his position ought not to be kept in suspense.
 MR. HUNT  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty at what date the iron steam frigate contracted for by the Admiralty with the Thames Iron Company is to be delivered by that Company?
 MR. KER SEYMER : Does that plan include a Dead-meat Market.
 MR. KER SEYMER  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to adopt so much of the Site of Smith field Market as reverts to the Crown for the enjoyment and recreation of the public? From the Report of the Commission of 1856 he inferred that there is some dispute as to whether a certain portion of the ground belonged to the Crown, and he wished to know whether any steps have been taken to bring that question to a decision.
 MR. FREELAND  complained that the interests of the church lessees had been completely ignored in the Bill, and moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. BRADY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department if his attention has been directed to certain statements to the effect that the Police have directions not to allow Omnibus Conductors to take up passengers in front of Apsley House.
 MR. BRIGHT : I am not sorry that I had the opportunity of hearing the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer before I was permitted to address the House. I am sure the House will understand me when I say that I have listened to large portions of his speech and of that of his predecessor in office with great satisfaction. As far as the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Disraeli) is concerned, I think that my hon. Friend the Member for Rochdale (Mr. Cobden), myself, and others who have generally acted with us may consider him a convert to the views which we have very often expressed in this House. I recollect that Sir Robert Peel on one occasion made a speech of very much the same tenor, and hon. Gentlemen opposite charged him with being a convert to our views. I believe that any man of intellect and genius who may lead that party to which the right hon. Gentleman belongs, and none other can lead it with any success, will, as time rolls on, more and more adopt those principles of political economy and of foreign policy which we have felt it our duty to propound to the House and the country. The speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Mem-
 191 192 193 194 195 196 197 The Times 198 199 200 201 202 203
 MR. BRIGHT : I did not say that England urged France into that war. I said that at the last France would have been glad to accept the arrangement proposed by Russia, and that France went into the war because she did not wish to be disassociated from the foreign policy of Eng-
 209
 MR. BRIGHT , in explanation, said, he had made no proposal for entering into a treaty of commerce; but, in referring to the reduction of the wine duties, he stated that one of the benefits arising from it would be the promotion of increased intercourse between England and France, and that this could not fail of having a great effect on the relations of the two countries. With respect to treaties of commerce his views and those of the noble Lord were identical.
 MR. SPEAKER : It certainly would be out of order to discuss the merits of the Bill; but I understood the Secretary of State from the Home Department to rather invite the opinion of the House on the question of the postponement of the Bill.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, he wished to inquire if the Government were disposed to give a day for the discussion upon his Bill for the repeal of church rates?
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, that arrangement would be quite satisfactory.
 MR. INGHAM  did not recognize the necessity for legislating on this subject at all during the present Session.
 MR. LAING  said, he hoped that Class 7 of the Estimates would be in the hands of Members on Wednesday next. The reason why all the Estimates are not printed together appeared to him to be obvious. Some of the Miscellaneous Estimates, for example, embraced subjects of great variety, and involved matters of general detail. Those were necessarily kept back to the latest moment for consideration, and perhaps alteration. It would be a waste of valuable time if they delayed proceeding with one class of Estimates until the whole were ready.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he did not intend to oppose the grant of money which the Chancellor of the Exchequer required, be-cause he felt the force of the right hon. Gentleman's appeal to the patriotism of the House; still he thought that a gentleman of his ingenuity and experience could have devised some measure for raising the sum required which would not have pressed so heavily as the extra income tax would do on a certain class of persons in the country. He spoke of those who had to depend on incomes derived from professional sources and others with incomes varying from £150 to £500 per annum. The proposition of the right hon. Gentleman was in effect this: that 6½ d. d. d. d. 221
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that it was not the intention of the Government to attempt during the present Session to take any measures for carrying into effect the recommendations of the Committee on Public Monies, but this decision did not arise from any disapproval of those recommendations, and more especially of the suggestion that a Committee should be appointed to inquire into the expenditure of monies voted by Parliament. He thought the adoption of that recommendation was, in fact, almost necessary to complete the discharge of the functions of the House of Commons with respect to the expenditure of public money; but he believed that it would not have been practicable at the time the Government acceded to office to appoint such a Committee with advantage, because the state of the previous arrangements in the various departments were not sufficiently advanced to enable the Committee to undertake the duties which would devolve upon them.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER :—Sir, as the right hon. Gentleman who has just spoken has addressed himself in so considerable a portion of his speech to matters immediately connected
 180 181 182 d. 183 184 185 de verbo in verbum 186 187 seriatim 188 189 190
 MR. DEEDES  trusted his hon. Friend would not press his Motion for adjourn-
 249
 MR. W. H. LEATHAM  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he contemplated this Session any extension of the system of penny stamps on bankers' cheques, so as to do away with the exemption at present enjoyed by persons who presented their own cheques for payment.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he entirely concurred in the proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to raise the extra sum he now required on property. There must always be two modes of raising the revenue, direct and indirect, and the latter affected the bulk of the people more than the former. The right hon. Gentleman the
 219 220
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  believed that the postponement of the Bill would disappoint no one anxious to see an honest reform of the Corporation. Indeed it would be no disappointment if such a measure as that proposed by the Government was never proposed at all. The Bill was completely at variance with the Report of the Select Committee.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  wished to say a word or two on this subject.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for War whether the detachment of the 41st Regiment, which suffered so severely from sickness while quarted in the principal Barrack at Trinidad, has been withdrawn from that Colony; and whether that Barrack, which has been repeatedly reported as situated in an extremely unhealthy locality, has been finally ordered to be discontinued for the quartering of troops.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that considering the probable length of the Session and the state of public business, the General Committee of Elections thought it was not advisable to proceed further than they on that day proposed to go in fixing Election Committees. To prevent any mistake he could inform the House that Election Committees had been struck that day from panel No. 1. Another Committee would be struck to-morrow from the same panel. On the 26th and 27th July panel No. 2 would be taken, and Election Committees would be struck. On the 1st and 2nd August further Election Committees would be struck ( cries of 5
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that perhaps the noble Lord would allow him to suggest that before he made his Motion he would read the Act of Parliament.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  thought that the only way in which the war might have been prevented would have been if Lord Malmesbury had from the first protested against Austrian misgovernment in Italy. This country could not pursue a policy of non-interference, and he believed that the House would never desire to see such a policy adopted.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  appealed to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department not to proceed with the Bill at the morning sitting fixed for tomorrow. Surely the right hon. Gentleman was not prepared to say that the subject would not keep for another month after the many postponements which it had already undergone. He (Sir John Shelley) and other metropolitan Members had strong objections to the Bill, and this was not the period of the Session at which it could be satisfactorily discussed. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would not thrust it down the throats of hon. Members at the close of the Session.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  inquired whether the evidence would be reported from time to time so as to enable parties to apply to the statements made?
 MR. BOVILL  expressed a strong opinion that the Assistant Judge should not be allowed to practise as a barrister. He thought that Parliament ought to have determined the matter itself, instead of leaving it to the Middlesex magistrates. By so doing the object of the Bill might at any time be defeated.
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  suggested that
 248
 SIR WILLIAM SCOTT  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether the Commission for Inquiry into the Public-houses Act for Scotland is to be conducted in private, and, if so, what are the reasons that necessitate its being so conducted?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : It would be idle to go into a discussion of exact words. But as the question has been raised as to the interposition of this country in the affairs of other States, and the impression has very often prevailed in the public mind that the interposition of this country has been either causeless or mischievous, I wish to remind the House of several occasions upon which that interposition has been exerted, and I would point out to the House that the results have been favourable to the interests and happiness of the country with regard to which we interfered. England interposed with regard to the affairs of Greece; and what has been the result? Why the result has been that Greece, established as an independent country, has now the benefit of a constitution; and although there are circumstances connected with the Government of Greece which we do not entirely approve, yet, comparing the state of Greece now with what it was at the period when our interposition took place, it is impossible to deny that the people of Greece are happier and more prosperous than they were in their former condition. We interposed in the affairs of Belgium; and what has been the result? Why the result is, that the Belgian people are as well governed, as prosperous, as happy, as loyal, and as attached to their Government as any nation on earth. We interposed in the affairs of Portugal; and what has been the result? Why the result has been that instead of Portugal having a despotic Government, full of abuses, Portugal has now a Parliamentary constitution somewhat resembling our own, and is making great progress in everything connected with the internal happiness and welfare of the people. We interposed in the affairs of Spain; and what has been the result? The result of that is, that instead of Spain being, as it was in the preceding period, alternately under an arbitrary and despotic Government and a chaos of revolution, she now enjoys a Parliamentary constitution, and Spain is also happy and contented, and making rapid advances in internal prosperity. We interfered also with regard to the slave trade; and I am happy to say that the result of our interference has been that millions of Africans—I say deliberately, millions of Africans—owe to our interference exemption from the greatest possible of calamities. I speak of the numbers who of late
 210 211 212 213 214
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, most of the questions referred to by the Chancellor of the Exchequer will be more fitly considered when the House has gone into Committee; but I cannot be silent after hearing from the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) a statement that has been made more than once, but which is quite erroneous. The right hon. Gentleman repeated to-night what was said by the late Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs the other night, and as to which I did not think worth while to trouble the House. It was this—that I said, when this Government was formed, they had nothing better to do than to follow the footsteps of the late Government
 207 208
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, that a one of the Commissioners, he wished to remind the noble Lord that the Commissioners did not recommend an expenditure of more than £200,000 per annum. When the House recollected that 800 lives per annum and a vast amount of property were lost for want of harbours of refuge, it was not unreasonable to expect that the Government would turn their attention to the subject. The estimates of expense had been gone into with the greatest care by-civil engineers, and as he had himself revised them, he could venture to say they exceeded the amount that would be required. Considering that only £200,000 would be wanted per annum, he hoped that the Government would propose a Vote for that sum in the next Session of Parliament.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he wished to offer a few observations to the House on the subject under discussion on behalf of the Church to which he belonged, and of the University which he had the honour to represent. Adverting for a moment to the remarks which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken with reference to the Queen's Colleges in Ireland, he would beg to say that the College of Belfast, with which he was more particularly acquainted, was unquestionably a success, not merely so far as the learning of its professors was concerned, but also with respect to the great judgment with which it was conducted, and the number of students which it contained. There was a Presbyterian College near it, the conductors of which allowed their students to avail themselves of the advantage which the Queen's College afforded for secular education. He would not further enter into the merits of the Queen's Colleges in Ireland, for the object which he had especially in view in addressing the House on the present occasion was to invite the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary for Ireland to the position in which the question of national education in that country stood. In doing so he should above all things, advise that right hon. Gentleman not to pin his faith to blue-books, for if he hoped to obtain complete
 292 Evidences of Christianity, 293 status 294 295 296 297
 LORD NAAS  said, he augured great good for the cause of education in Ireland from the manner in which the subject under discussion had been debated that evening. The absence of that angry tone and party feeling which generally marked their discussions on this subject showed that all parties were willing to approach the question in a dispassionate spirit. He had always thought that the National system had conferred inestimable benefit on the people of Ireland, and be thought that it ought to be touched, if it was to be touched at all, with the greatest care; but it was impossible not to see that the principle upon which it had been originally founded had been in a great degree departed from, and that the system had, for all practical purposes, ceased to be a united one. He knew that in Ireland very influential, very able, and very intelligent men adhered to the principle of a united education; and he himself was most anxious to see such a system carried out. He never could understand why children of different religious denominations could not meet together for the purpose of receiving their ordinary education; but the experience of twenty-five years had proved otherwise. It had proved that the feeling of the people in Ireland was against such a system. There was no use in denying that fact; and the sooner the attention of Government was turned to it the better. The great majority of the clergy of the Church of England maintained that they could not sanction any principle of education under which the Bible was not read by every child coming into the school; they held that Scriptural instruction ought to be received by every child attending the school. On the other hand, it had been advanced by the Roman Catholic clergy, and laid down in a most authoritative way, that instruction could not be given to Roman Catholic children from any but Roman Catholic
 305 306
 CAPTAIN ESMONDE  said, that it appeared to be admitted by all parties that the present system of national education in Ireland had not worked well in many respects, and the great majority on either side of the House were in favour of its revision. But whilst they all agreed that it had many faults he did not think it fair to deny that it had also produced great advantages to the country. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin had stated in his speech that, during the period which had elapsed between 1841 and 1851, a decrease had taken place in the proportion of educated persons in Ireland, and he laid this at the door of the system of national education. Now he (Captain Esmonde) had expressed his dissent from this proposition in the only way in which at that period of the debate it was possible for him to do, and the right hon. Gentleman had said to him, "the hon. Gentleman may shake his head. We shall see if there is anything in it." [ A laugh. "In concluding our report on the subject of ages and education, we beg to take the opportunity of congratulating your Excellency on the progress which the returns show has been made in the education of the people during the eventful period since 1841; and although it is evident that much remains to be done to overcome the ignorance still prevailing, especially in some of the less improved parts of the country, yet it is encouraging to find that even in remote districts ignorance has diminished during a period which, for affliction and calamity, is unparalleled in the annals of Ireland, and which resulted in diminish-
 307
 MR. COWPER  said, the right hon. Gentleman who spoke last was rather sanguine in thinking that the way in which those Estimates were to be reduced was by the administration of his successor. Under the right hon. Gentleman's own administration that expenditure, instead of being diminished, had increased. It was altogether a mistake to suppose that the matter could be regulated by mere administration. The amount of those Estimates no doubt depended on the minutes of Council, which it was open to any Government to alter; but while those minutes remained the same they must make up their minds to encounter an increasing charge. The province of the State was not merely to supply the deficiencies of voluntary educators, but rather to improve the quality of the instruction. No attempt had been made by the Government to educate the people, and therefore the system was not open to the charge of undue centralisation. The object of the Government had rather been to direct and aid the education which was already given without them. He thought a careful inspection of the schools under the direction of the Privy Council would show that the education in those schools
 333 334
 MR. HENLEY  said, he did not wish to prolong the debate, but he could not permit some of the observations which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Council to pass without remark. He agreed with what had been said by almost every hon. Gentleman who had spoken, that although there might be many defects in the existing system of education, yet, until a better one had been brought forward—and he was not aware that anything like so good a plan had been proposed—we ought to go on as we had done for some time past. The Vice President had stated that in his opinion one main defect of the present system was that the trust deeds of the several schools were made too exclusive with respect to the particular religious bodies to which the institutions belonged. He begged to tell the right hon. Gentleman that if any evil existed of that kind—though for his own part he did not admit it to be an evil—it had been brought about by the action of the Privy Council itself, causing it to be suspected—he did not say whether with or without reason—that the Council wanted to introduce the very system which the right hon. Gentleman now talked of establishing—the system, namely, of conscience clauses. Those who recollected the disputes that took place not many years ago would remember that not a few of the parties who were willing upon other grounds to accept aid from the Privy Council would not accept it, because they were afraid of having some such measure thrust upon them as that which seemed to have passed through the mind of the right hon. Gentleman. It ought not to be forgotten that a vast number of the schools which now existed throughout the country were founded by the religious feeling of the public. There could be no doubt of that fact, and the right hon. Gentleman might rest assured that people of strong religious feeling would not permit themselves to be interfered with in the management of their schools. If he attempted to do so, instead of effecting the object which he had in view, he would only render the schools more exclusive, and aggravate the evil, if there was one, which he said now existed. During the last four or five years much of the jealousy which formerly prevailed seemed to have passed away, and he earnestly trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would not take any step which might have
 339 340
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought this rather an awkward state of things, for whereas the Chancellor of the Exchequer had just told them that he had no control over the expenditure, the Vice-President now said that the House of Commons had no control. If, however, the Committee were to refuse the money, he did not know where it would come from.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he must express a hope that this Bill would be postponed until the opinion of the profession in Ireland was taken upon it. The Bill had been only printed and sent over to Ireland yesterday.
 MR. WHITESIDE  declined to postpone the Second Reading. The object of the Bill was merely to amend an omission in the Medical Acts.
 MR. SERJEANT DEASY  said, the Motion of his hon. and learned Friend amounted to an attempt to repeal the Act of Parliament by which the General Committee of Elections were constituted the sole tribunal to pronounce a decision upon questions such as that under discussion. In his opinion the proper course was for the House not to interfere in the matter.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he rose to ask whether it is proposed to fill up the vacant office of Assistant Secretary to the Poor-Law Board consequent upon the appointment of the former holder of the office to the chief secretaryship, vacated by the Earl of Devon. There were no loss than four Secretaries in this department—a Parliamentary Secretary, a principal Secretary, and two Assistant Secretaries. From his experience of the business of the Board he could say there was no necessity for two Assistant Secretaries, and by the abolition of the office there would be saved to the country a sum of £900 per annum. It was a small matter, but it was small matters which went to swell the miscellaneous expenditure.
 LORD ELCHO  said, the right hon. Gentleman the late Chancellor of the Exchequer had done him the honour of consulting him as to the purchase of the picture. The noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs and the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Coningham) were also consulted on the matter. They all reported in favour of the purchase of a picture of great merit, and which represented one of the great land-marks in our history, and the late Government acted upon their advice. He was one of the trustees of the National Portrait Gallery, and was certainly under the impression that the money had been voted.
 MR. LIDDELL  observed that they had heard a great deal about the enormous increase in this Vote, and that it was likely to increase rather than diminish, but they ought not wholly to regard this Vote as it appeared upon the Estimates. They ought rather to compare it with the reports of the Inspectors of Schools, and although those reports, in their candid feeling and details, might not contain so satisfactory an account of the education of the country as they could wish, still they developed a steady and fair ratio of facts and progress, and if there were one feature more agreeable than another in these reports, it was the improvement in the pauper schools of the country, and which dealt with a class of children whose parents could not afford to educate them otherwise. He would draw the attention of the President of the Poor Law Board to the melancholy fact that, in spite of the large expenditure staring them in the face, there were yet 300,000 poor children not receiving any education in this country, and who belonged to a large proportion of that class of paupers who received out-door relief. Machinery had already been provided for their education, but the Act being permissive remained inoperative. From a return that had been furnished on the subject out of 612 unions only 199 availed themselves of the Act; 418 had neglected to avail themselves of it altogether, and of the 199 who had availed themselves, the total number of the children amounted to 5,650. The Act in question was the 18  Vict., 337
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he regretted that the hon. and gallant Officer had thought it necessary to bring this question before the House. The change referred to was, after much consideration, made some time ago (not by the present Government) for the purpose of carrying out the recommendation made, that there should be a division between the  personnel matériel
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, it was quite true that Mr. Churchward, a second class clerk at Deptford, had been appointed to the Store Receivership at Chatham. The salary of his former office was £225 per annum; and that of his present one was £450. With regard to what Mr. Churchward's services had been to-lead to so great a promotion he (Lord C. Paget) thought he had better leave that question to be answered by the right hon. Gentleman the late First Lord of the Admiralty.
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs when the Papers relating to the Settlement of the Government and Constitution of the Danubian Principalities will be laid upon the table of the House?
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he rose to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer for an explanation of the following paragraph in the Report of the Trustees of the National Portrait Gallery to the Lords of the Treasury, dated April 15, 1859:—
 "Her Majesty's Government have offered to the collection, and the Trustees have, with thanks, accepted the great picture of the House of Commons at the opening of the First Reformed Parliament in January 1833, as painted by Sir George Hayter, and as recently secured to the nation by a Vote of the House of Commons." 262
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he did not think that any Papers had been asked for with regard to the Settlement of the Government of the Danubian Principalities. In fact the Settlement had not yet been made. There had been communications with the Government of the Sublime Porte, and an answer had been returned; but there had not yet been any final Settlement made on this subject. He trusted, however, that not more than a week would elapse before there was a final Settlement; and if so, he should have no objection, if his noble Friend moved for them, to lay the Papers on the Table.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I have to state, Sir, that the French Government have communicated to the Government of Her Majesty the conditions of the Peace concluded at Villafranca. They are not, however, as yet in a fit state to be laid before the House. In respect to the communications which have been passed between the two Governments, I think it would be better to name some day next week for making a statement on the subject. I shall, therefore, on Thursday next, if possible, or at all events on Friday next, state to the House what the precise conditions of the Peace are; and in what position we stand in respect to France in relation to the late Treaty of Peace. I do not think it necessary to enter further into the question now.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the regulations ordered by Lord Mamesbury did not require any sanction from him; but in the ordinary course they would come into operation without any interference on his part. He had looked into the regulations of Lord Clarendon, and he confessed he did not see that there was any good reason for making the alterations that had since been made. There were, however, some of the observations of Lord Malmesbury that were worthy of attention; but he (Lord John Russell) would consider the whole subject with a view to see whether the regulations of Lord Clarendon should be restored.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he was not aware that any very late communication had been received on this subject. The subject was one of importance, and he regretted the course pursued by the Peruvian Government, but of course if the Peruvian Government refused to listen, our Minister was powerless. He believed that at present there were 300,000 tons of Peruvian guano in store in this country of the estimated value of £3,000,000. The Peruvian Government appeared to be satisfied to sell a small quantity at a high price; but there were so many artificial manures in use that they were not likely to obtain the high price they demanded. If anything more could be done, Her Majesty's Government would be prepared to make a fresh representation to the Peruvian Government, but it was in the power of that Government to withhold the guano from the English market if they thought proper.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : —I understand from the Government of the Emperor of the French that there is no provision or understanding that the dynasties of Tuscany, Modena, and Parma are to be restored by military force. I further understand that it is not the intention of the Emperor of the French to use force for the purpose of restoring those dynasties.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that as far as the first petition was concerned, it had been brought to a conclusion by the noble Member having vacated his seat, and he imagined that the only petition which could be prosecuted was the second, with regard to the election which gave him a title to a seat in the House.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he had given notice that he would ask the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, whether he will lay on the table of the House, Copies of the Despatches which have passed between the noble Lord and Lord Cowley and Sir James Hudson, since the announcement of the Armistice between France and Austria. After the discussion of last night, however, and the Motion of which the noble Lord (Lord Elcho) had given notice for Monday week, he thought he should exercise a wise discretion in refraining from pressing the question. There was, however, one point connected with foreign affairs on which great misapprehension seemed to exist, and respecting which, it was necessary that the real state of the case should be known both here and abroad. In the  Journal des Débats 276 "England, who inquires about a vessel more or less at Brest, and who votes 300 millions for her navy !—England, who counsels so loudly the Continent to disarm !—is she going to set the example, and withdraw from her order of the day this programme of menace and fear, the fatal effect of which we have been obliged to notice, keeping in view the alliance we should wish to preserve?"
 MR. LEFROY , as Member for the University of Dublin, felt bound to say a few words on the subject before them. For the first time they had beard the subject of separate education approached in a becoming temper by the hon. Member for the King's County, and heard it temperately discussed by the House. He (Mr. Lefroy) had often attempted to prove that the National system of education in Ireland was a failure. That was now admitted. When the National Board was proposed he certainly refrained from offering any opposition to it, because he believed that upon certain classes in Ireland it conferred great advantages. The books used by the Board were certainly of the most valuable and excellent character, and such as he should desire to see used by the Church Education Society. He did not attribute the failure of the system to the observance of the principle of a united education; because in their University of Dublin they had a united education, which progressed most favourably. They had recently added in that University fourteen scholarships of £100 a year each, which were equally open to Roman Catholics as to Protestants. He was of opinion that a separate system of instruction would have the effect of separating those classes in after years. He could not understand why the Bible should be the only book to be especially excluded. He had no wish to deprive the Roman Catholics of any of the advantages of those schools; at the same time he should deprecate the principle of making the sacred Scriptures a sealed book to the whole school. The greatest authorities upon the subject of education were unanimous as to the character of the education that ought to be given. The
 304
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that he had not entered the House in time to hear all that had fallen from the noble Lord, but from what he had heard he thought it would not be unbecoming in him to make a short statement. The picture which was the subject of discussion was recommended to the late Government by a memorial signed, he believed, by more than two-thirds of the late House of Commons as being one which ought to be purchased by the nation. He could not well call to mind the sum that was asked for it, but probably it amounted to £5,000. When the memorial was placed before him, he thought it best to consult several gentlemen of great eminence, one or two of whom had occupied the highest posts in the counsels of Her Majesty and were Members of that House, and he requested their opinion as to the course it was desirable to take. After having well considered the subject, they recommended that the picture should be purchased at a much more moderate sum than that which was originally asked. It being then determined to purchase the picture, which was one of great historical interest, and which a great majority of the House was anxious should be purchased, it became necessary to decide where it should be placed, and the late Government considered that the new Gallery of Historical Portraits, which had been managed with signal success and was of great interest and value, was the proper place for it. The picture could not have remained in the House of Commons, as there were objections to retaining it there, and the late Government, therefore, took the course indicated by the noble Lord. When the Vote should be brought before the House, he could not doubt but that the House would approve it.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that every attempt at national education in this country had invariably turned out to be denominational, and indeed that system was the only one which, according to experience, could be effectually carried out in Great Britain and Ireland. The hon. Gentleman who had last spoken, and to whose opinion on this subject the highest respect was due, seemed inclined to trust entirely to the voluntary system with respect to education. The hon. Gentleman complained of the great expense which was incurred in grants for educational purposes, and to that extent he could not but sympathize with him for he (Mr. Adderley) thought that the gradual increase in the amount of this Vote deserved serious and careful consideration; but when the hon. Gentleman contended that the voluntary principle might be relied upon for the education of the country, he must surely be oblivious of the state of education before the present system was commenced. If in this country there were more men like the hon. Gentleman, who, possessing wealth, were disposed to apply it to the promotion of the important object of educating the poorer classes, there would be the less necessity for appeals to the Treasury in aid of what might be much more satisfactorily accomplished by voluntary action. The hon. Gentleman would see, however, if he looked back for twenty or twenty-five years, that much had been done under the present system, and that the state of things was very different from what it was before the present system
 329 330 331 332
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that it appeared to be admitted by every speaker that this system of National education had broken down as a combined system in Ireland; at all events, it had not realized the original programme; and he therefore would suggest to the Chief Secretary that the best course to adopt would be to recognize the fact that the Irish system was like those of England and Scotland, a denominational one. The proposed system had failed in every stage of its experiment. The introduction of the Bible, then its exclusion, and after that the compromise of Scripture lessons, had all failed; the vesting system had failed, for not one-fourth of the 5,000 schools in Ireland were vested in the Board, and all the rest were distinctly denominational schools. The joint management system had failed, for only forty-eight schools could be said to be conducted upon that principle; and owing to the break up occasioned by the system itself, it had been shown in this debate that now the Central Board itself did not command the respect which alone could give it authority enough to conduct a national system. The question therefore arose whether the system could he patched up. This could not be done either by giving peculiar rights and privileges to one religious sect, or by making the education secular. The Church could not ask for the Bible unless she consented to the Roman Catholics using their books. Nor would the country consent to exclude religion altogether; and he was, therefore, driven to the conclusion that the only course which could be adopted was to recognize the fact that this was a denominational system, that no other could be fully carried out, and to amalgamate and make it one with the English and Scotch systems, with which it practically agreed, and from which it was only needlessly distinguished, and most mischievously placed under a separate administration.
 MR. BUXTON  said, that having brought forward this question last year he would be glad to make a few remarks, for he felt convinced in common with many who had formerly been opposed to such a course that the time had come when it would be well for the Government to modify the rules of the Irish Board, so far as that no school should be excluded simply because the Bible was taught in it. He could not assent to the proposition, however, that the national system had proved a failure. On the contrary it had been a splendid success, it had done incalculable good in Ireland. But there could be no doubt that
 298 299 300
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he could not but regret that his right hon. Friend the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) had not taken a more appropriate opportunity than the present for bringing this subject before the House. The right hon. Gentleman had neither taken any objection to the Vote when it passed some days ago, nor had he communicated with him afterwards or before the appointment, and which the right hon. Gentleman know was already made. When he acceded to office his noble Friend directed him to inquire whether the vacancy alluded to was one which ought to be filled up, and he had accordingly sought for information from
 272
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the hon. and gallant Gentleman must be aware that it was an ordinary and a proper thing to relieve the troops serving in India. There were under orders for embarkation 6,728 men, of whom 2,360 belonged to local corps, and 4,368 to the regiments of the line.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he rose to put the question of which he had given notice relative to the Treaty of Villafranca. In his opinion the time had arrived when our diplomacy should cease to bear the characteristics of secrecy. Diplomacy in the present day was conducted so well that it did not need to be protected from public observation, and he thought it would be greatly for the advantage of the country if the public were allowed the opportunity of knowing what was going on. There were many occasions upon which public opinion could have interfered with salutary effect, and without desiring to make any personal attack, he might specify the case that occurred ten years ago. Ten years ago an offer was made by Count Hummelauer, on
 280 281
 MR. PULLER  said, that with regard to the question raised by the right hon. Gentleman it was clear that the whole of the pupil teachers, after being maintained and educated by the State for five years, could not become schoolmasters, nor did he think it desirable that they should, inasmuch as lads of thirteen were not old enough to choose an occupation for life, and, even if they were, some of them might turn out unfit to be intrusted with the education of children. It appeared, however, from the Parliamentary returns that more than two-fifths of them actually became teachers, while, with respect to the remainder, it might be said that the money of the State was not wasted upon them, seeing that it was expended in imparting to them a sound education, fitting them to render good service to the country in the various occupations of life. The Vice President of the Council, after stating in his very able speech the numerous merits of the existing system, had frankly laid before the Committee what he considered its defects —namely, its increasing expense, its want of universality, and its denominational character. But with respect to the first of these objections he would observe that for every pound of the public money expended upon this object they obtained £2 from private contributions; a fact which proved that this expenditure was both economical and popular. It should be also recollected that all their neighbours spent much on this object, and the United States spent without stint to give a good education to the children of that country. In his opinion the only substantial objection that could be brought against the system at the present time was its want of universality. Certainly those who paid their share of the money, but received no benefit from it, had a perfect right to complain. But there was a very simple way of curing that evil —namely, instead of diminishing, by increasing the grant, so as to comprehend
 341
 MR. ROBERTSON  was of opinion that the less this House and the Government interfered in the matter of education the better. Besides, it was becoming every day more and more a very serious drain on the public purse. As the noble Lord the Member for London had once well remarked, instruction was only received in the schools—education could alone be implanted at home. Scotland and her sons owed much to the system of education which prevailed there, and he would express a hope that the Government would leave the people of Scotland, as well as of England, to educate themselves, and that those national grants would be diminished with a view to their entire discontinuance, more especially as their inevitable accompaniments were the religious question, and its consequent fearful discussions and dissensions. The good feeling of men of property would always induce them to contribute to the aid of their poorer fellow-countrymen by subscriptions during life, and bequests after death, and the giving of public money would greatly tend to dry up these sources of private contribution.
 LORD FERMOY  said, he wished to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he intends to remit or reduce the Stamp Duty on the Diplomas for Licence or Fellowship of the Royal Colleges of Physicians of London, Edinburgh, and Dublin, and the Degrees granted by the Universities of Scotland?
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he bad listened with the greatest attention to this discussion, and if he had not risen till the close of it it was that he wished to hear all that hon. Gentlemen from Ireland had to say on the subject. While he stated as plainly as he could his own views, he should also state them as briefly as possible, leaving more lengthened observations until time and attention had made him more familiar with the subject. He certainly did feel a sentiment of surprise at hearing the hon. Gentleman who introduced the discussion say that the Queen's Colleges had proved a failure; because, when they considered the circumstances under which these colleges were founded, the unparalleled difficulties with which Ireland had had to contend the very year after the Act for founding them passed; when they remembered that these colleges were situated, not in the metropolis of Ireland, but were intended for the education of the provincial towns; that they had affiliated with them no schools for preparation of the pupils; and that they were without any of those endowments or that connection with the Church which the older institutions possessed —he thought they would be of opinion that the result which they had attained to might not, indeed, be an example of complete success, but was an encouragement and a reason for hope. That was the opinion of the Commissioners in their Report. He could not understand some of the statistics of the hon. Gentleman as he had made use of them, but the authentic statistics before him gave them reason for anything but discouragement and despair. The attendance of pupils last year amounted in the three colleges to 493, the largest number in any one year. The attendance of such a number to obtain an education such as was given them in these colleges was an immense advantage to a country situated as Ireland was. Moreover, it appeared that the pupils had been drawn pretty equally from the various religious bodies into which the population was divided. It appeared that of the number of pupils who had matriculated, there were, Roman Catholics, 445; of the Established Church, 426; and of the Presbyterian Church, 343. That surely gave great cause for encouragement, for the cause not only of advanced, but of mixed education in Ireland.
 308 309 310 311 312 313
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether the French or Austrian Government have communicated to the British Cabinet the conditions of the Peace concluded at Villafranca, and the mode in which it is proposed to give effect to them; and whether the co-operation of England and the other Neutral Powers have been invited for that purpose?
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, he rose to move "That it be an Instruction to the General Committee of Elections to suspend their proceedings in the matter of the Petition of Electors of the City and County of the City of Norwich which was presented upon the 17th day of June last, against the Return of Henry William Schneider, Esq., and Viscount Bury, until the Examiner of Recognizances has reported on three other Petitions, subsequently presented to this House, against the Return of Viscount Bury, and which subsequent Petitions relate to the same Election as the Petition presented against the Return of Henry William Schneider, Esquire, and Viscount Bury on the 17th day of June last." These petitions were against the return of the noble Viscount in the election of April last; but there was a subsequent election in the month of June; there was no allegation of bribery or treating in the June election, all the allegations referred to the election that took place in April; it was alleged that the bribery at this election was notorious.
 345
 MR. HADFIELD  said, the Committee ignored the fact that 2,500,000 children were taught in Sunday schools, by 313,000 teachers, who received no pecuniary reward whatever. The Church of England schools received two-thirds of the whole amount, though their numbers were not equal to those who received no grant whatever. They were not justified in increasing the grant before they had received the Report of the Commission then sitting on the subject. The increase this year was £173,485 of which £75,000 was for the arrears of last year. He believed there was not a man in the kingdom who was more desirous of promoting education than the hon. Member for Leeds (Mr. Baines), and his opinions were deserving of the utmost respect. That hon. Member was opposed altogether to these grants, and coinciding with him, as he did, he moved that the grant be reduced by £100,000.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. PEASE  said, he wished to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, whether it is the intention of the Government to propose to the House, during the present Session, any measure with a view to the encouragement of the formation of Harbours of Refuge on the coasts of the Kingdom, in conformity with the Report of the Royal Commission of last year upon this subject. It was proved before the Commission, that
 277
 MR. HENNESSY  said, before the House goes into Committee, I am desirous of calling attention to the principle on which the grant for promoting public education in Ireland is administered, and of pointing out circumstances which I think justify me in expressing an opinion that the principle in question has not been practically successful. I shall confine my remarks to a statement of simple facts. I shall be contented with showing that the system of Mixed Education in Ireland has failed, and with indicating the natural causes of that failure. In the presence of some Members of this House who have had the experience of a quarter of a century of educational progress, and who worked at this very subject before I was born, it would approach
 285 286 287 288 289 290 291
 MR. MELLOR  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the recent appointment of Justices of the Peace for the Borough of Great Yarmouth; and to inquire of Her Majesty's Ministers whether it is their intention to introduce any measure for regulating the appointment of Justices of the Peace for Boroughs in England and Wales. He became a candidate for the borough of Great Yarmouth in 1857, and in the course of his canvass he found that several persons declined to promise to vote for him on the ground that if they did so they would not be able to obtain any licences for the public-houses they were erecting. He made inquiry into the circumstances, and he found that there were eighteen acting magistrates for the borough, fourteen of whom were Tories, or Conservatives, only three Liberals, and one neuter. It was represented to him that in consequence of this state of things there was great dissatisfaction, and a great sense of insecurity and uncertainty with respect to the integrity of the decisions which might he come to on licensing days, and on matters connected with the licensing system. It turned out that on licensing days magistrates who never attended on other occasions came down, and by a large majority refused to give licences to houses which did not belong to persons of their party, and that with respect to overseers, the practice was to appoint three Tories to one Liberal. The consequence was that great suspicion was entertained as to the way in which the Parliamentary registry for the borough might be got up. He presented a memorial from the inhabitants to the Government on the subject, and Lord Chancellor Cranworth thought that the mere preponderance of one political party was not a ground to induce him to interfere, but on receiving a further statement, and on the three Liberal magistrates declining to attend the bench unless fortified by some addition to their number, as they felt that under the circumstances it was useless to attend, and after notice was given to the Town Council and Mayor, and every inquiry had been made, Lord Cranworth added six additional magistrates to the bench, making nine Liberals to fourteen Tories, or Conservatives. The announcement of this addition caused great excitement in the town, and the Town Council and Mayor made a re-
 265 266 267
 MR. WALTER  said, there was one point connected with the subject before the Committee to which he wished to call the attention of his right hon. Friend who presided over this department. It had always appeared to him that if the object of Government was to afford a stimulus to the system of education, an active inspection was the form in which, in many cases, it was likely to give most efficient aid. But one striking omission in the working of the system was that it withheld its aid from those who were most willing to help themselves. If a squire, for example, resolved to erect a school in his parish he might go to the Government and solicit from them a grant in aid of the undertaking, and his wishes would be complied with. On the other hand, a person might feel it to be his duty as a landlord to provide a school for the instruction of the children of his labourers, and might decline to receive any pecuniary assistance from the Government; but, at the same time, such a person had a right to expect that the Government would extend to him that cheap and gratutitous assistance which consisted in Government inspection. That assistance could be given through the medium of the Government Inspectors. He claimed it as a right, which the Privy Council ought willingly to acknowledge, that those who did most to assist themselves by maintaining schools at their own expense should not meet with the difficulties which they at present encountered in obtaining the services of the Government Inspectors. The reports of these gentlemen afforded only an imperfect idea of the amount of education going on throughout the country. They ignored altogether hundreds of well-conducted schools, supported entirely upon the voluntary principle; and having on his own estates several schools established and maintained upon that principle, but never having enjoyed the benefit of the Government inspection, he hoped that if ever he should apply to his right hon. Friend the Vice President of the Council to have his schools visited and examined by the Government Inspectors, no hesitation would be felt in
 338
 MR. WISE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty whether it is true that Mr. Churchward, junior, a third class clerk in Deptford Dockyard has been recently appointed Store Receiver of Chatham Dockyard; what were the services which led to so great a promotion; and what are the salaries of the two offices alluded to?
 MR. WISE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether he proposes to sanction the altered regulations ordered by the Earl of Malmesbury for the examination of Candidates for the Dilpomatic Service; or whether he contemplates the re-establishment of the regulations which were settled by the Earl of Clarendon in 1855, and were approved of by the Civil Service Commissioners as calculated to secure the aid of well-qualified persons for the Public Service?
 CAPTAIN LEICESTER VERNON  said, he rose, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of the House to an Order issued from the Horse Guards materially affecting the organization of the Corps of Royal Engineers. He was sure, when the House recollected that it was to this corps they committed the scientific shore-defence of the empire, hon. Gentlemen would extend their courteous indulgence to him for a few minutes. The Order was addressed to the Deputy Adjutant General of the Royal Engineers, and was thus worded:—
 "Sir—The Inspector General of Fortifications having been relieved of his military duties, I have the honour to signify to you the desire of his Royal Highness the Commander-in-Chief, that you will report to the Adjutant General of the Forces on all matters relating to the corps of Royal Engineers. General Sir John Burgoyne has been apprized of the arrangements on the subject. A. G. WETHERALL, Adjutant General." 274 quadrilatêre. esprit de corps; 275
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he thought that the Queen's Colleges had been reasonably successful. At the same time it should be recollected that the collegiate system in Ireland had been overdone. A college had been established in each of the four provinces in Ireland, whereas one college in Belfast, in addition to the University at Dublin, would have served all useful purposes, but still it could not be said with truth that considering the number of the colleges and the area of the country, they had failed. He believed, however, that the system of National education, as a system of mixed education, had been a failure. It had conferred great benefits upon the Roman Catholic population, but there could be no doubt of the fact that it did not possess the confidence of the Protestant community. For some of the Commissioners he entertained the highest respect, but not one of them was a man whose presence at the National Board would suffice of itself to command the confidence of Irish Protestants. The case was different formerly, but the secession of the Archbishop of Dublin had been a great misfortune to the National system of education. He might state by way of illustration, that in the county of Cork there were 470 national schools, of which no fewer than 450 were Roman Catholic—a fact which, while highly creditable to the zeal of the priesthood, showed that the system was of comparatively little value to the Protestants, who could not be expected to send their children to schools of which the patrons and managers were Roman Catholic clergymen. The system, in short, was not a united system at all. He had heard with surprise that ignorance in some parts of Ireland was proportioned to the number of Na-
 301
 MR. LOWE  said, that the total amount of the Estimate for educational purposes in Great Britain amounted to £836,920. The total amount for the Science and Art Department was £93,394, making together a gross sum of more than £930,000. He would first address himself to the sum required for England. It was instructive and interesting to watch the increase of this Vote. The first expenditure for education, under the minutes of the Privy Council, in 1840, was £10,642 8 d., 314 315 316 minimum status 317 vice versa. 318 319 320 321 322
 MR. LOWE  said, that the information which he was able to lay before the House on the subject of pupil teachers was not very accurate. About 12 per cent., he believed, never came to the end of their apprenticeship, through illness and other causes. This reduced them to about 87
 343
 MR. LAING  said, it was proposed to reduce the Stamp Duty on the Diplomas for Licences of the Royal Colleges referred to; but it was not proposed to in-
 261
 MR. LAING  said, that as the sum, not of £5,000 or5,000 guineas, but of £3,000 had been, on the recommendation of the Trustees of the National Portrait Gallery, agreed to be paid for the picture in question by the late Government he did not think it proper to strike the sum out of the Estimates. The Vote would come on during the consideration of the Estimates, and he thought that the proper time to decide whether the Vote should or should not be sanctioned would be when it was asked for.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  ob-served that he was not prepared to state that the vacant office was necessary, but he wished to express the hope that if it should not be be filled up, care would be taken at the same time to preserve such an establishment as would suffice to conduct the business of the department in the same admirable manner as hitherto.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, that in what had just fallen from him he did not intend to give an opinion in favour
 273
 MR. COLLINS  said, he wished to point out that the whole cost of the bridge, with the approaches, would be about £500,000. The value of the bridge estates was about £150,000, so that £350,000 would have
 344
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not rise to enter into the general discussion, but to echo what had just fallen from his hon. Friend. As long as the Education Votes were administered under the real control of a Committee of Council, formed of six or seven Members of the Cabinet, the Treasury was usually represented there by the First Lord and the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and whatever minutes were framed passed under the view of those who were responsible for the financial departments. The change since made was an important one, because now these minutes did not go near the Treasury at all. That change had crept in unawares, for he did not think the House was apprised that such would be the effect when the appointment of a Vice-President was decided on. He agreed, therefore, with his hon. Friend in thinking that it well deserved the attention of the Government, because it was not regular; it was not conformable either to precedent or to our principles of administration that important documents, forming, as one might say, standing contracts with parties all over the country, should take effect and should raise expectations which could not be disappointed, when they had never in any way been submitted to the consideration or approval of the Minister of Finance.
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he rose to move "That it is the opinion of this House that the system of management which now exists at the National Gallery is highly unsatisfactory, and is detrimental to the public service." The increased expenditure in all departments of the Government was matter of general observation. There was a growing feeling also among the people that they did not get
 282 283 Tait's Edinburgh Magazine, Westminster Review. Examiner, Punch A laugh. 284
 MR. GREGORY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs if any communications have lately been received from the Peruvian Gevernment on the subject of the reduction of the price of Guano. Guano was now an article of such primary necessity in Ireland, that any reduction in the price of it would be of the greatest benefit to the small farmers of that country. By the instrumentality of the Earl of Malmesbury, a reduction, amounting to £1 per ton, had been made to the English consumer, who was now placed on the same footing as the American. He had, however, been given to understand that a still greater reduction might be ex-
 278 charge d'affaires
 Mr. MASSEY  in the Chair.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he could not agree with the hon. and learned Gentleman who had said that in Ireland Collegiate education was overdone. His own belief was that, with the exception of Spain, there was no country in Europe in which a smaller portion of the population received a University education. There was no doubt, however, that the system at present pursued had not been successful. Since 1850, £252,000 had been spent upon the Queen's Colleges, and the number of persons who had graduated during that period was 252. They had therefore cost just £1,000 apiece. The wish of every hon. Member of that House must be that, without religious distinction, the highest intellectual education should be given to the Irish people; and his opinion was, that the best means of accomplishing this would be to assimilate the whole system to that of Trinity College. Let Belfast College occupy, with regard to the Presbyterian Church, and Cork and Galway with regard to the Roman Catholic Church, the same position which Trinity College occupied with regard to the Established Church, none of them excluding students of other denominations who might come there, and you would have ten times the number of students, and produce a tenfold benefit to the country. With regard to the National Board the case was not so simple. The system could hardly be said to be a failure, because there had been established under it schools in which 550,000 children were taught, and which, whatever might be the fault of some of them, were, compared with primary schools in other parts of the world, of a high order. There was no doubt that the system was at present in great danger; but there were two alternatives which might be adopted to avoid it. They might either upset the Irish system and adopt that of England in its place, or they might recur to its original principle of united secular and separate religious education. That principle had been so completely departed from, that there were now in Ulster 30,000 or 40,000 Roman Catholic children who were in Protestant schools, taught the Protestant Bible by Protestant teachers. With regard to the 100 model schools which had been established on the principle of excluding religious teaching, the case of those schools must be reconsidered, and they must be put on some other footing, or else there would be continual objections, and the system would not receive that hearty support which was necessary if they wished to
 303
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to
 279 Princess Royal, Princess Royal,
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for India whether it be true that 5,000 men of the Indian Depôts are ordered to be embarked for India; and if so, what proportions of this force are intended to be of Her Majesty's regular and local forces?
 MR. BAINES  said, he rose to make a few remarks upon the important and interesting statement that had just been made. In following the right hon. Gentleman who had so ably addressed the Committee, he (Mr. Baines) claimed their indulgence as one who had during the whole of his life entertained a conscientious sense of the importance of the question of education. He had the deepest sense of the value of education, he had advanced it by all the means in his power, and he rejoiced to find the feelings of the House and of society in general very different on this subject to what they were in the days of his youth when discussions used to take place whether it was desirable that education should be universal. He must, however, take leave to express his alarm at the rapid progress which these educational Votes were making. In order to justify his apprehension upon that head, he would remind the Committee of the words used by the present Chancellor of the Exchequer a year or two ago, when the right hon. Gentleman said he viewed with great jealousy the continual increase in the Educational Votes, as the officers of that Department seemed to think that the expenditure of public money was a necessary duty on their part. The Rev. Frederick Temple, the head master of Rugby School, and late Chief Inspector of Schools, also said that probably two-thirds of the money expended in the capitation grants had been applied in aid of schools which would have done quite as well without such assistance, that in short they had not been spent in promoting education, but in relieving others from the burden of so doing. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lowe) had candidly admitted the amazing rapidity with which these grants were increasing, and that in a very few years they might amount to £2,500,000, if not £3,000,000. The late Chancellor of the Exchequer last year led the House to believe that these grants would amount in the course of a few years to £3,000,000. He had, therefore, the highest authority for saying that these grants deserved the most serious consideration of the House. The grants began in 1832 with a sum of £20,000. That
 323 324 325 326 A laugh. 327 328
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that as a Member of the Committee he wished to state that a similar application had been made to the General Committee on Elections and that they had come to the conclusion, first, that they were not satisfied that they did not possess the power by law to carry out the instruction moved by the hon. and learned Gentleman, and next, that if they had such a discretionary power, they were unanimous in refusing the application. He would remind the House that the main principle of the law on disputed elections was, that they should not be brought for decision before the House of Commons, but another tribunal—the Committee of Elections. He would suggest that the wiser course was not to override the decision of the Committee. The question had been considered by the Committee of which the Secretary of State for the Home Department and the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge were Members, and they were assisted by counsel. The decision was unanimous, and it was supported by a precedent in former times. As to the inconvenience, there might be quite as much inconvenience if the decision of the Committee had been the other way. It was quite true that the second petition referred to the supposed misconduct of Viscount Bury at the former election, but supposing Viscount Bury had been elected on the second occasion for Marylebone, and was petitioned against in respect of Marylebone, could it be said that the petitions for Norwich and Marylebone ought to be referred to the same Committee? The General Committee of Elections thought that these petitions referred to two different elections, and had treated them accordingly. The Motion now was too late, and he did not see how the House could interfere.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was of opinion that the House had no jurisdiction in a matter which had been settled by Act of Parliament. If they sought to make
 346
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that in the absence of the Home Secretary, he had to state that it was not the intention of his right hon. Friend or of the Government to propose any measure to Parliament to regulate the appointment of magistrates. It would be difficult, indeed, to lay down, by Act of Parliament, any precise rules upon such a matter, but at the same time he could not help saying that nothing could be more prejudicial to the fair and impartial administration of justice or the confidence which the people at present felt in such an administration than the practice of appointing magistrates with a view exclusively to their political opinions. That an attempt should be made upon each change of Government to introduce new magistrates without reference to the existing number was deeply to be regretted. The hon. and learned Member for Nottingham had referred to Lancashire, but that county occupied an exceptional position. Complaints did not often arise with respect to the magistracy in counties, because county magistrates were appointed upon the recommendation of the lords-lieutenant, who generally exercised a sound discretion. In the case of Lancashire, however, some check seemed to be wanted. In that county magistrates were appointed by the Chancellor of the Duchy without any reference to the Lord Lieutenant, and during the last sixteen months more than 120 magistrates had been placed upon the bench in that county, and he understood that at the present moment there were more magistrates in Lancashire than policemen. It would be his duty to ascertain whether any rule could be laid down, not in an Act of Parliament, but in his own office, for the purpose of putting a check on the existing practice in Lancashire, or, at all events, of insuring that before gentlemen were placed upon the bench there should be some inquiry as to the necessity for any addition to the number of magistrates.
 SIR HENRY STRACEY  said that, as one of the representatives of Great Yarmouth, he felt it due to his constituents to endeavour to make some reply to the observations of the hon. and learned Gentleman. Of all men in the world, he would submit with the greatest deference the hon. and learned Gentleman was the very last who ought to have come forward to make such allegations. He had in his possession a statement published by the hon. and learned Gentleman in the Norfolk newspapers which seemed to him to justify that opinion. The hon. and learned Gentleman had said that he had lately presented a petition from Great Yarmouth. It had been made to appear as if the inhabitants of Yarmouth were opposed to the appointment of these three gentlemen. He had, however, taken the trouble to look at the petition, and he found that it contained the signatures of just five persons, and those of no great social standing, out of a population of between 35,000 and 40,000 of whom 1,300 were electors. He doubted whether any other Member, except the hon. and learned Gentleman, representing
 268 269 270
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was not at present prepared to modify any of his opinions on this subject, as formerly expressed; but he could not refrain from indicating his sense of the excellent spirit and tone which distinguished the speech of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Baines) the Member for Leeds. He felt the greatest pleasure in seeing the hon. Gentleman hold a seat in that House, affording him as it did the fittest opportunities for stating those views which he was so well known to entertain on subjects connected with education. He was afraid the hon. Gentleman and he regarded this great question from different points of view; but he felt certain that no one who had paid considerable attention to the subject of popular education could have failed to be deeply impressed with the signal ability and zeal which the hon. Member had displayed in its treatment and advocacy during many years. He agreed with the hon. Member for Leeds in viewing this Vote with distrust, but the reasons of his distrust were very different from those which actuated the hon. Gentleman. The hon. Member for Leeds regarded the Vote with distrust, because he altogether disapproved of State assistance. Now he (Sir John Pakington) regarded it with distrust not on that ground, but because he strongly doubted whether the
 335 maximum 336
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that the Poor-Law Board had more Secretaries than were needed to do the business. He hoped, therefore, that the office now vacant would not be filled up. Although the amount involved might be small the saving of even £500 a year would be an earnest of the intention of the House to effect all possible reduction in the expenditure of the country. He was glad that the noble Lord at the head of the Government had promoted an able and meritorious public servant to the office of Chief Secretary.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  observed it was truly stated that the reduction
 342
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  said, he thought it would be most inexpedient for that House to interfere with the jurisdiction of the Committees. He was much surprised at the construction given to the Act of Parliament by a man so experienced in election business as the hon. and learned Member for Marylebone.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Everybody is aware of the great importance of harbours of refuge upon those points of the coast especially to which the hon. Member refers, and the Report of the Commissioners confirms his views. But their calculation of the expense of forming the harbours of refuge recommended by them is £4,000,000 sterling, and those who are acquainted with the adaptation of the cost to the estimate in works of that description, will say whether the expense is not likely to be much greater than the estimate. I have, therefore, to state that Her Majesty's Government have no intention during the present Session of making any proposal on this subject.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was sorry that this question had been raised, as he did not think the interests of public morality would be served by it. He thought the assurance given by the Government ought
 373
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  observed, that he did not at all agree with the hon. Mem-
 375
 MR. COWPER  said, he would remind the hon. Member that the South Kensington Museum was open two nights a week. He wished, however, to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the department to the new buildings which would contain the Turner and Vernon Collections, and he hoped they would also be exhibited two evenings in the week. A scientific Commission had inquired into the question whether the artificial light had produced any ill effects upon the pictures in the Sheepshanks' collection, and they reported that it had not, the products of combustion being carried out of the room so completely as to avoid all injury to the paintings.
 MR. MAGUIRE* : Sir, before I come to the immediate subject of which I have given notice, I desire to offer some observations in reference to the general question which is now legitimately placed before the Committee. The question is one of the deepest interest, to the people of Ireland,
 376 377 378 379 380 381 s. s. s. 382 s. s. d. d. d. 383 "With such scanty recources for the maintenance of his family, it is evident that the teacher can make no provision for old age or infirmity; and when he has become unfit for the efficient discharge of his duties, his removal from the school, without any superannuation, will deprive him of all means of support, or his continuance in it will be a burden to himself as well as an injury to the best interests of the locality. Wore the Commissioners to grant retiring allowances to old and deserving teachers, such a painful alternative would not present itself." "For to seek to secure for the public service, as merely secular teachers, men properly qualified, and therefore necessarily of large attainments, and to think at the same time to keep them at their present rate of income, I regard as aiming at things quite incompatible, and which cannot possibly long co-exist; and we must determine therefore either to ameliorate their condition, or resign ourselves to the melancholy alternative of seeing the best and ablest among them daily departing from our ranks." "Although upwards of 5,000 teachers have been trained in our service, death, emigration, and change of employment have so thinned the ranks, that at present upwards of 2,000 of the 5,192 National schools in the country are in the hands of untrained teachers. "I believe, however, the principal reason why we find so many candidates of inferior qualifications is to be found in the circumstances that the remuneration of the teachers is so low. The remedy for the evil of which I have been complaining, which naturally suggests itself, is that training schools should be supplied. This remedy has been tried; it has been found to be insufficient; and, paradoxical as it may appear, not only is the remedy insufficient, but the evil is, to some extent, augmented. There is no advantage whatever gained to the cause of education by giving a high
 384 In no way can the Commissioners, in my humble opinion, more effectually promote the interests of National education, than by rewarding amply the men who bear the toil and heat of the day, the humblest but most useful of all their agents, the rank and file of the service, the teachers of ordinary National schools. s. d. d. d. 385
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he wished to express his concurrence it what had fallen from the hon. Member for Dungarvan. For his part he was sick of hearing of conciliation and compromise, and the rival interests of Catholics and Protestants. There was only one way to conciliate Roman Catholics and Protestants, and that was, not by asking them to give up their sincere opinions, but by mixing them up in every possible way in secular affairs and keeping them separate in religious affairs. He could not see the policy of employing ill-paid agents to carry out a great object, and he trusted that after the clear case stated by the hon. Member for Dungarvan the House would take the matter into consideration.
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  (who had given notice that he would call the attention of the House to the undefended state of the coast between Weymouth and Southampton) said, he rose to order. He was unaware that the last subject had been disposed of, and as his notice was placed immediately afterwards on the paper he believed that he had precedence of the hon. and gallant General.
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  said, he then rose, pursuant to notice, to call the atten-
 401 402
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, some observations were made that morning as to the payment of the national schoolmasters in Ireland. He thought it was highly expedient to increase their salaries, and also perhaps to reduce their number. The right hon. Member for Taunton (Mr. Labouchere) bad spoken on the subject of education in Ireland. The right hon. Gentleman advised the people of Ireland to preserve the national system, but there were 2,200,000 or 2,300,000 Protestants in Ireland, and nineteen-twentieths of them were of opinion that the Scriptures ought not to be excluded by a peremptory rule from their schools. The province of Ulster afforded a test of the feelings of Irish Protestants on this subject. They were unanimously of opinion that some concession should be made to satisfy the scruples and convictions of their church and people. The Church of Rome, the Church of England, and the Presbyterian Synod complained of that system. The right hon. Member for Taunton asked the Irish Members why they did not approve it, but would the English Members agree to the establishment of that system in England? They certainly would not. There were at present what were called revivals in Ulster, and he had read an account of 30,000 people worshipping there the other day in the open air. Those people would tell you that they clung to the Scriptures, that they pinned their faith upon the Scriptures, and upon nothing else. You might say that that was Puritanical, but that was not the question. The question was, did they bold that opinion? They did. On what principle, then, did the House propose to tax them for the
 423 424 425 Ave Maria 426
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that as the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, the senior Trustee of the British Museum, happened, unfortunately for him (Mr. Walpole), to be in office, it devolved upon him as the junior Trustee to move the Estimate for the present year. But the duty was considerably lightened on this occasion by the circumstance that there was nothing in the Vote this year requiring explanation or apology. The Committee would observe that the Vote was less by £1,875 than it was last year, or £77,475 against £79,275 of the previous year. The Vote was arranged under the different heads of the salaries of the establishment, the house expenses, purchases and acquisitions, books, and bookbinding, catalogues, and miscellaneous charges. If hon. Members looked through these different details they would find that there was an increase under the first head of £1,475 in consequence of the increase of attendants which the new arrangements had rendered necessary. Under the head of house expenses there was a diminution of £220, in consequence of some improvements in the warming and ventilation. Under the third head, of purchases and acquisitions, they would find there was a slight increase of £300, chiefly owing to the improvements in the mineralogical department which was under the direction of a very able Professor. Under the head of books and bookbinding there was a large diminution, to the extent of £2,500 which, was owing to large Votes having been taken in former years to bring up the arrears of bookbinding which had fallen back in former years. There was also a diminution
 431
 MR. GREGORY  said, he wished to call the attention of the Committee to the pre-
 432 433 434 435 maximum
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he knew the gentlemen constituting the working body of the British Museum, than whom a more intelligent, honourable, or worthy class of men did not exist. He trusted the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs would use his influence in that House and as a trustee of the Museum in removing the great scandal on the lite-
 436
 MR. TURNER  said, he quite agreed with the hon. Gentleman who had called the attention of the Committee to the position of the assistants of the Museum, who, he thought, were an ill-used class of men. He had the honour of knowing the whole of them, and he thought it was an honour to any gentleman to be acquainted with men of such high attainments and so fully competent to conduct the different departments in the Museum, and who were able and willing on all occasions to give every information to visitors to that establishment. And yet with the small salaries allowed them they were unable, highly accomplished though they were, to live like gentlemen, or to educate their families in a manner befitting their station. One of them he knew, had been compelled to relinquish what to him must have been a sort of Crimean medal, namely, his title of honour in connection with a learned body of which he was a member, from sheer inability longer to pay the annual expenses incident to membership. He (Mr. Turner) considered it a disgrace to the country which refused a salary of £300 a year to such men, but gave it to persons employed, for instance, in the inspection and manipulation of boots and coats for the army.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  wished to call the attention of the Committee to the small sum which was granted to Irish institutions of a similar character, when such lavish Votes were granted in England. He hoped that when a few trifling items were proposed for Irish purposes they would not meet with a renewal of objection to the amount. He agreed with the hon. Member for Galway that the British Museum was not made sufficiently available for the purposes of instruction. On a future occasion he should renew the notice he had formerly given on that point, and also for opening the Museum after the hours of Divine service on Sundays.
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  said, that the officers of the Museum complained not only of the lowness of their salaries, but of the way in which they were treated, being marked, for example, when they arrived in the morning, and having the number of hours they attended recorded against them. He could not understand why the Trustees had allowed the grievances of the assistants to remain so long unredressed. He was quite sure that no private gentleman would have treated his servants as the Board had treated the assistants of the Museum. He also wished to remark with reference to what had been said as to removing a part of the Museum to Kensington, that he thought the inhabitants of the east end of London had some claim to be considered, and that Victoria Park was as suitable a spot as Kensington for a part of the collection. He believed Mr. Smirke was the architect who had carried out the alterations of the Museum. £550,000 had been ex-ponded on the front, which he certainly did not admire, and only £200,000 on the Museum. He hoped any further alterations would be submitted to a competition of architects.
 MR. TITE  said, he differed from the view taken by the last speaker. The proportionate outlay was, as he believed, greatly less and the cost of the portico and peristyle under £100,000. The original architect was Sir Robert Smirke, his brother, Mr. Smirke, being the present architect, both of them being then of the greatest eminence. He did not object to the amount of the Votes that had been granted in respect of the monuments brought from the excavations at Halicarnassus, which had been referred to in the course of the discussion, but he wished to know whether some arrangement could not be made by which those extremely curious monuments could
 438
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  asked whether the Museum could not be kept open longer on Saturday afternoons than at present; it might be contended that this would throw increased labour upon the servants of the institution, but he thought the working classes better deserved consideration than they, and that the general disposition evinced by all classes to observe the Saturday half-holiday rendered such an arrangement desirable.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he rose to reply to the various suggestions and questions that had been made. The hon. Member for Galway, in pointing out the inconvenience of removing some portion of the collection, and retaining others where they now were, suggested that the whole question should be taken up and considered by the Government. He (Mr. Walpole) was of the same opinion, for he believed that no Committee of that House could effectually grapple with the subject. Various Committees had already sat upon the whole matter, and all the information required had been obtained. It now only remained for the Government to take the matter in hand, and determine not only with regard to the British Museum, but with regard to other existing museums, how they could best be made available for the public generally. He thought it was hardly necessary, after the observations made by the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. M. Milnes) to reply to the observations that had been made upon the supposed confusion existing in the arrangements of the Museum. He might mention, however, that within the last ten days one of the most scientific gentlemen in Europe had seen and expressed his entire satisfaction, not only with the collections themselves, but with their arrangements. As to the suggestion that courses of lectures should be established, and lecturers of acknowledged ability be appointed to impart instruction upon the various portions of the collection, he thought that a difficult question to decide. Individually he thought such collections could not be made the most of without instruction; but in what rooms could the lectures be given? Who was to give the lectures? How was he to be paid? And after all, was the Museum the proper building for such a purpose? The Museum was a collection, not a school for instruction—a place to which people might resort to get
 439 de novo cum multis aliis 440 441
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that speaking as an individual he felt bound to state that he looked upon the scheme for extending the Museum which had been sketched by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole) with alarm, as one involving an enormous and most unnecessary expense. The provision of additional accommodation called for the early consideration of the House; but whether it could be accomplished without the separation of the collections was to him more than doubtful. The Trustees, he believed, were quite prepared to enter into the fullest consideration of this question and to declare their opinion upon it, and it would be the duly of the Government, when circumstances would permit, to take steps to bring it to a state of ripeness for decision. At the present moment he felt more than ordinarily the necessity for caution and circumspection, on account of the accumulation of heavy demands on the public purse, though he did not state this so much as a reason for doing nothing as a plea for indulgence. He was sorry to hear the question of insufficient salaries and vacations raised in the House of Commons—for in the first place there appeared little presumptive reason for raising it, and if it were raised it should be in a different manner and place. The most deliberate and careful consideration had been given to the question of salaries by the Trustees and the Treasury jointly some two years ago. In fixing the salaries of offices of this kind, it was but fair to the public that the other incidents of the offices should also be taken into view. It must not be forgotten that the offices which these gentlemen held were peculiarly agreeable in themselves, and the agreeable incidents of offices of this kind for literary men must necessarily form an important item in considering the salaries attached to them. Still, if these gentlemen were dissatisfied —and it was evident from what had been said that they were—with the amount of salary which they received, and the length of vacation which they were allowed to abstract from their ordinary duties, their proper course was to memorialize the Trustees and ask for an alteration. They had al-
 442
 MR. GREGORY  said, that the right hon. Gentleman laboured under a misapprehension, when he said that he (Mr. Gregory) represented the grievances of the officers of the British Museum. From taste and inclination, however, he was frequently at the Museum, and well acquainted with the affairs of the place. He hoped that the gentlemen in question would profit by the advice of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and that their address would meet with more success than former ones had done.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he would not ask the House to take a Vote which might create discussion at that time of night, twelve o'clock.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, hon. Gentlemen must remember that the retiring allowances comprised in this Vote were made to professors who were got rid of when the Parliamentary grant for the Belfast Academical Institution ceased. The Irish Presbyterians were not Nonconformists, they formed, in fact, a National Church, holding the same opinions with the Church of Scotland. With regard to the conduct of the rev. Gentlemen mentioned by the last speaker, it was ridiculous that a salary of £150 per annum was to prohibit them from turning their talents to the best account, so long as their doing so did not interfere with their professional duties. A salary of £150 to Dr. Cooke for teaching the young men of his own creed—the equal of Chalmers in oratory—was not apiece of extravagance of which the Committee could complain. He must remind the hon. Gentleman who spoke of these Presbyterians in Ireland in the way he did that they contributed largely to the taxation of the country, and that it was a very impolitic course for any hon. Member to take, when £30,000 was voted for the College of Maynooth, by turning round on some of the most useful men in Ireland who were engaged in teaching a large body of people the principles of their religion.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he should oppose the second clause.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that Major-General Cartwright, who was an Inspector-General of Police, was entitled to a salary of £700 a year, but in consequence of his having served in the army, and being in receipt of half-pay, a deduction of £200 a year was made from that amount. He
 443
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  replied, that a clause in the present Bill would enable officers of the police force to receive their full-pay in that capacity, as well as half-pay and pensions for military services.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL,  in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, that in consequence of indictments having in many cases been preferred against persons before grand juries simply for purposes of oppression or extortion, this measure provided that in cases of perjury, subornation of perjury, conspiracy, obtaining money or other property by false pretences, keeping gambling-houses or disorderly houses, or indecent assaults, the prosecutors before preferring Bills should be required to take proceedings before magistrates, and so give the parties accused some notice of the accusations. At present indictments might be preferred before grand juries, and if they were found upon  ex parte
 MR. HEADLAM  said, that as a member of the Select Committee, he was convinced of the practicability as well as of the expediency of a measure like the one before the House. Still he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that it should be postponed till the evidence was before the House.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  suggested that the Bill should be postponed till Thursday, when the evidence taken by the Select Committee might be in the hands of Members.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he had to complain that Irish Members were excluded from this as well as from most other Committees. There was not a single Irishman in the Cabinet, and it seemed therefore to be forgotten that there was an Irish Member in the House. A Committee was also about to be appointed to inquire into the state of the Thames; but, as usual, it was to comprise no Irishman, pro-
 446
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  remarked, that the assertion of the exclusion of Irishmen was rather unjust. The head of the Cabinet was an Irishman; and there were several Irishmen on this Committee,— among them he might mention Mr. Sidney Herbert.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he had never heard the fact just stated; he was glad to salute the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) and the Secretary at War as brother Irishmen.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS,  in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the law relating to Roman Catholic charities, said that for some years past an annual Bill had been passed to withdraw Roman Catholic charities from the general law by which all charities were subjected to—the jurisdiction of the Charitable Commissioners. The reason of that exemption had been that in many cases the Roman Catholic charities contained trusts which the law denominated as uses of a superstitious character, and, therefore, void by the existing law; and it was thought that if those trusts were brought, without some cautionary legislation, under the jurisdiction of the Charitable Commissioners, they would be invalidated, and that thereby inconvenience would ensue contrary to the intention of the original founder. Promises had been made at different times that this exception should be put an end to, and that provisions should be proposed to the House which would have the effect of remedying the inconvenience in question, at the same time that the Roman Catholic charities should be brought under the operation of the existing law. Up to the present time, however, that object had
 447
 MR. ESMONDE  said, that as the Bill referred to Ireland, he should like to hoar the opinion of the Solicitor General for Ireland upon it.
 MR. HENLEY  said, this was a modified attempt to get rid of the grand jury system. Attempts had been made to get rid of the system altogether. He believed the system had been abused in the metropolis with a view of extorting money, but he must beg leave to reserve his opinion upon the question whether the Bill dealt rightly with the grievance. He would ask whether the object of the Bill could not be attained by restraining persons from presenting Bills instead of restraining the grand jury from finding Bills? But he thought the objections to the Bill could be better discussed in Committee.
 MR. SEARJEANT DEASY  said, he believed the operation of the Bill in Ireland would amount almost to nothing, because the offence against which it was aimed was almost unknown there.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, it was with some reluctance that he rose to oppose the Bill. Having examined the matter he thought the House ought to consider well before they agreed to the Bill. There was no doubt it was very desirable that locomotives should be permitted to travel along turnpike roads and be subject to tolls like carriages drawn by horses, but the evidence did not satisfy him that the House would be justified in its present state of information in passing the Bill. The experiment had been hitherto tried upon only a very narrow scale, and he was informed that the engineer of the Board of Trade entertained considerable doubt whether there was sufficient experience to justify the granting of the permission sought for by the Bill. He therefore suggested that, for the present, the Bill ought to be withdrawn.
 MR. RIDLEY  said, the evidence given before the Committee showed that the experiment had been tried to a large extent in Manchester and Liverpool in the most crowded hours of the day, and that no damage had ensued. It should be re-
 445
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he was glad that the Government had resolved upon the introduction of this Bill. All he now asked was, that they would give sufficient time for considering the measure, and that the country might see that it did not involve any principle the recognition of which might be the cause of regret hereafter.
 MR. KINNAIRD  remarked that it was not a time for discussing the question of nude figures, and he hoped the Motion would be withdrawn.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he was glad to hear the Government intended to appoint a Commission of the kind indicated by his right hon. Friend the Secretary for War; but some doubt appeared to exist in the House as to the extent of the powers to be conferred upon it. He hoped that the Commission contemplated would have for it3 object an inquiry not merely into the stone and mortar question, but into the whole subject of the national defences—to determine the number of men, both of the regular army and the militia, which it was essential we should have in this country as a permanent force, available at all times; what was the number of ships and sailors it was necessary to maintain as a permanent available naval force; and what fortifications were indispensably requisite for the defence of the kingdom. Such was the scope of the Motion of his hon. and gallant Friend (Sir De Lacy Evans) and he thought it desirable that it should be so extended that we should no longer be liable, as we were now, to a constantly recurring state of panic, which was fast becoming chronic, and which was unworthy a great nation. We ought, on the contrary, to be in a position which would render us independent alike of the friendship or the enmity of all or any of the potentates of Europe. We ought to know, as Englishmen, that whatever steps were necessary to obtain the security of this country had been adopted; and he thought that the appointment of a Commission to inquire into these matters would be the best means to attain that object. If that Commission should report that a certain number of men, a certain number of ships, and certain mi-
 412
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he rose to ask a question on a matter which he believed and hoped had been much exaggerated. He wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty whether the report which had appeared in the public papers, with reference to certain occurrences alleged to have taken place on board Her Majesty's ships the  Liffey Cœzar Hero Liffey 364 Cœzar Gœzar Hero Liffey Hero
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : I have got, Sir, a somewhat multifarious number of questions to which to reply. I shall commence by answering those which have been put to me by my right hon. Friend opposite (Mr. Adderley), in the greater portion of whose observations I must say I entirely concur. My attention was some time ago called to the subject of the payments by different colonies towards their own defence, and I confess it is scarcely possible to conceive anything more capricious or, I may say, unreasonable than the varying proportions in which those payments are made. The Government of the mother country sends troops to the Colonies for the purposes either of defence or of internal police. So far as the first object is concerned, they have some sort of claim to ask her to bear a share of their military expenditure, inasmuch as she arrogates to herself the settlement of all questions of peace and war, and their interests may suffer as the result of the policy which she chooses to pursue. That is a doctrine which, however, may be pushed too far, because if the prospects of a colony are injured by war she enjoys all the advantages of being placed under the protection of a powerful State in time of peace. These observations apply not only to colonies which have great wealth, but to those garrisons which belong to us in the Mediterranean and whose strength makes their possession coveted' by other nations. Now, with respect to the question of the maintenance of troops in our Colonies for the purposes of police, I must say I think such a course is one which is indefensible. We at home pay our military and police expenditure: the one out of the proceeds of Imperial taxation, the other out of local rates. That is a distinction which ought, in my opinion, to be as far as possible maintained in our Colonies. The question, however, is beset with difficulties, but, before I proceed to state the views of the Government with respect to it, I shall
 403 404 405 "That, in the opinion of this House, taking into consideration the relations existing between some of the great Military Powers of the Continent, it is advisable that a Commission be appointed, consisting of Civilians and Military and Naval Officers, to inquire into and collect information concerning the present condition of our National Defences; to ascertain what improvements may be made therein in order to insure the utmost efficiency combined with economy; and to report thereon to Her Majesty's Government." 406
 LORD ALFRED CHURCHILL  said, he entirely concurred in the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman. The question of our colonial defences was one of the greatest importance, and there was no subject
 398 399
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the Admiralty felt indebted to the hon. Gentleman for the temperate tone of his question, as it would be for the public advantage that the truth should be known, instead of exaggerated reports. With respect to the particular cases referred to, he would say a few words upon each. The  Liffey Agamemnon "Her Majesty's ship  Liffey Sound, July 7. "I have the honour to communicate that on Saturday last, at about 9.30 p.m. (Her Majesty's ship under my command having recently arrived from Liverpool) it was made known to me that a noise had taken place on the lower deck, caused by a few shots having been rolled about the deck. Immediately on its discovery I assembled the ship's company at quarters, and sent for the petty officers on the quarter-deck, with the view to arrive at the cause of the circumstance, but notwithstanding my questioning them collectively and individually they expressed ignorance of the transaction, and on closely being questioned as to whether they or the ship's company had any complaint
 365 Hero "Her Majesty's ship  Hero "I regret to have to report a show of insubordination on board Her Majesty's ship under my command. Yesterday evening, at 8 p.m. considerable noise and the rolling of shot about the lower deck took place. Mr. Strickland, the first lieutenant and commanding officer, immediately turned the hands up to muster. A large part of the men (among whom were all the petty officers) had already separated themselves from the disturbers, and fell in at once. Mr. Strickland very judiciously passed the word that the well-disposed men should immediately give their names in to certain officers that he had instructed to take a list of the men who wished to separate themselves from those who were trying to make a foolish disturbance. This had the desired effect, and everybody came up and put their names down. Before this was accomplished I returned on board by a boat that had been sent to me to Her Majesty's ship  Emerald Cœsar 366 Princess Royal
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  replied that he had not intended to convey the idea that the Board of Admiralty intended to abolish corporal punishment. He had only said everybody was anxious it should die out, but that it must die a natural death, and could not be strangled suddenly.
 LORD HADDO  said, he wished to call attention to the exhibition of nude living models in the Government Schools of Art. He had on one occasion been accidentally a witness of the mode of study pursued in
 371
 LORD HADDO  said, that in an imprinted return in the library there appeared a statement to the effect that under the Board of Manufactures in Scotland there was a school in which for years the nude female model had been exhibited five times in one week and four times in the next, making nine times a fortnight, during nine months in the year. He wished to know whether the public money would be given to this school at Edinburgh.
 LORD HADDO  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, he also approved of the appointment of the Commission, but he thought it was impossible that such a Commission could determine the exact number of troops, militia, ships, or artillery necessary for the defence of this country, inasmuch as the defensive force ought always to be proportioned to the force of other countries from time to time, and have regard to the varying state of European politics. Nor could he agree in the notion that there was a "chronic state of panic" in England; at the same time there was no doubt a feeling that because of the great military power existing on the Continent it was necessary that this country should be placed in such a state that if any state of circumstances of an ad-verso nature should arise, rendering remonstrances on the part of England necessary, she should be able to make those remonstrances with due weight and without any apprehension as to their result. He hoped the Commission contemplated by the Government would be so constituted as to carry weight in the country as well among military men as civilians, and that they would not incur expenditure of a kind calculated rather to retard the work of national defence than to carry it out on a satisfactory footing.
 LORD LOVAINE  said, that as the statement of the noble and gallant Lord the Secretary for the Admiralty might lead to much misapprehension and possibly mischief, he thought the noble and gallant Lord ought to state distinctly whether the present Board of Admiralty had determined to abolish corporal punishment in the Navy.
 MR. AYRTON  said, lie could not agree that the Commission proposed by the Government would in the least meet the views of the gallant Officer (Sir De Lacy Evans). The inquiry into the best mode of fortifying the dockyards was, from its very nature, but a small portion of the great question which the gallant Officer wished to have investigated, and involved merely an engineering investigation as to the best mode of defending particular places. The corps of engineers was maintained expressly for the purpose of designing and carrying out
 414 minimum minimum minimum 415 416
 MR. AYRTON  said, the arguments used in favour of this Bill would equally apply to the whole grand jury system, and the right generally of preferring an indictment before a grand jury. Although he was anxious to guard against abuses in the cases referred to, he objected to constituting a justice of the peace, without any appeal or restraint, the sole judge as to whether an indictment should or should not be preferred. The measure was one which proposed a fundamental change in the constitutional rights of a British subject, and which appeared to him to be totally subversive of his liberty in those matters. He should certainly oppose the passing of the measure, unless it was materially altered in Committee.
 MR. BLACK  said, the principle of this Vote was radically bad; for this money was given not to a university, but to the
 430
 MR. LEFROY  said, he had understood the Chancellor of the Exchequer to say that the Government would by no means countenance such exhibitions as those referred to by the noble Lord. He thought that assurance ought to satisfy the Committee, and he hoped that no division would be taken on the subject. As to the question of opening the public galleries on Sunday, he trusted that no further encroachments would be made on the sanctity of the Sabbath.
 MR. A. MILLS  agreed that it was of the utmost importance, that the schools in the south of Ireland especially should be raised to a higher standard, and that the only mode of raising them was by increasing the salaries of the masters. The real test, in his opinion, of a good system of National education was, that it should evoke the largest possible amount of local and personal effort; but tried by that test, he confessed he thought that the Irish system of education had in some measure failed. He trusted that the Government would use their best endeavours to make the system succeed in those points where it had failed.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the Military defences of the Colonies, and to the source from which those defences are supplied. In doing so his object was rather to elicit the opinion of the Government and what their intentions were, than to offer any lengthened observations of his own on the subject. The Return which he had moved for some time ago of the amount of forces in each of our Colonies, and of the amount of taxation which was borne by each for their support, had been laid upon the table of the House, but had not yet been circulated amongst hon. Members; he must, therefore, trust to other sources of information which were within his reach, and especially to a return which had been ordered on the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Aberdeen (Colonel Sykes). The question he wished to raise was one of some importance—it was how far this country should not only supply the colonists with troops, but defray the cost of those troops within their territories. Of course, if the House were prepared to continue the present system, they could do so; but he believed that many hon. Members were not acquainted with the nature of the case, and he wished them to consider whether it was the duty of this island not only to furnish out of its limited population the greater part of the Colonies with troops for their defence, but to provide, by heavy taxation, for the greater part of the cost which these troops occasioned. It seemed to him that the very reverse was the right principle, as well for the interest of the Colonies as for those of this country itself; for the principal result of the plan now adopted was not only that it was needlessly expensive, but that not one single colony of the British Empire was in a state of adequate defence and security in the event of war breaking out. England had of late years granted all her Colonies self-government, without calling upon them to satisfy the corollary— namely, by undertaking their own defence. England had given all her Colonies self-government freely and fully; nor in his opinion did she regret having done so. She
 392 393 394 vice versâ 395 396 397
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that the school at Edinburgh where the naked figure was studied was not a part of any establishment aided by the Government, but was connected with the Royal Academy of Edinburgh, which had nothing whatever to do with any public grant. The grant for the school in Dublin where the naked figure was introdued was to cease; and, therefore, there only remained the school at Manchester which the Committee needed to consider. He did not think the answer given, that these grants were strictly appropriated, was perfectly satisfactory, because it might be said that the study of the naked figure might be put an end to by making the cessation of that study a condition of the grant. Every one would give credit to the noble Lord for his motives in bringing forward this subject, but the complete study of art could not he carried on without the exhibition of the nude figure. If such an exhibition were perverted to the purposes of indecency, of course, not a moment should be lost in withdrawing all share in the grant of public money from the establishment where it was so applied.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he was willing to yield to the appeal of the Secretary for the Treasury, and postpone his Motion.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he hoped that the return alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for North Staffordshire (Mr. Adderley), which was rather a complicated one, would be laid on the table on Friday. The noble Duke at the head of the Colonial Office would, he was confident, give his best consideration to the views expressed by the right hon. Gentleman opposite; but there was another side to the question, as they had heard from the distinguished colonist whom they were all glad to see in the House, and who was a brilliant representative of the truly British spirit of the colonial subjects of this country. He thought that his right hon. Friend (Mr. S. Herbert) had struck a fair balance between imperial views and the colonial side of the question, which had been so candidly and temperately stated by the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Haliburton). It must be remembered that the Home Government had to deal with a great number of communities scattered all over the world, differing in age, in means, resources, in the liability to attack, and the necessity for defence, and it was, therefore, impossible to adopt one uniform system in dealing with them all. In many of these cases, too, the Home Government had not to deal with colonies subject to their absolute authority, bhut had to negotiate with Governments possessing representative institutions and capable of acting in a great degree independently of
 411
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he sympathized with the objects of those who supported the Sunday opening, but he thought the feeling of the country, certainly the religious feeling, was against any change in that respect.
 LORD FERMOY  said, he had listened with disappointment to the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Wexford, who had accused the national teachers, amounting to 6,000, of disloyalty, because three or four heedless men among them might have been disloyal. [Mr. GEORGE denied that he accused the whole body of disloyalty.] He doubted if that test were to be applied universally whether in a time of political excitement Trinity College itself would be found pure. In 1848 the most excited and disloyal effusions in the  Nation 388
 MR. BALL  said, he did not see the connection between the two subjects—the employment of these models and the opening of public galleries on the Lord's Day, except so far as one vice generally led to another. He could, therefore, understand that those who were the advocates of the one would soon become the supporters of the other. He regretted to hear in that House any palliation of the employment of those figures, as he thought that the grant of public money to any institution where such an exhibition prevailed, although the grant might be appropriated to other purposes, was an indirect support to a practice tending to demoralize society.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, in regard to the question so ably brought forward by the hon. Member for Dungarvan—the increase of the salaries of the teachers—it would be most agreeable to him, and, no doubt, it would have been so to his predecessor in office also, if the increase in those salaries could have been larger; but let the Committee consider the difficulty in which those who prepared this Estimate were placed. If any one in office wished to increase the salaries of persons falling within his department, there was another department to be consulted, namely, the Treasury, which, probably, taking a general view of the affairs of the country, would entertain a different opinion on the
 390
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he hoped the hon. Member for Lambeth would be satisfied with his assurance that no new expenditure with reference to the Model Agricultural Schools was now contemplated. The hon. Gentleman might not be aware how that system of agricultural teaching originated. It was considered desirable by the Devon Commission, and by all persons who had paid attention to the condition of Ireland, that industrial education should be combined with merely literary education, in order that the children, whether male or female, might receive a training which
 421
 MR. CARDWELL  said, the whole of the items which formed this Vote were given in a complete state in the Estimates, and he had no hesitation in saying that the colleges had not met with the success which was originally expected by the founders.
 MR. CARDWELL  explained that the fusion had taken place, but that such of the then existing professors as were en-titled to a retiring allowance were provided for out of the Vote.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he had heard with great satisfaction that the Secretary of State for War assented to some extent to his hon. and gallant Friend's proposal for a Commission. For if that House were called on to vote a large sum of money they would do it all the more readily if its expenditure were recommended by a Commission that commanded public confidence. He wished therefore to suggest that the official element should be introduced in this Commission as sparingly as possible, if even it were not excluded altogether, since one of its most important functions would be to review the proceedings that had already taken place under official authority. It would also be desirable to secure an early report, and a limit ought, he thought, to be put to the period at which the first report should be made. He did not see why the first report—not the final report, but embodying the main recommendations of the Commission—should not be made within three months. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that it was out of the question to attempt to fortify our coasts so as to prevent an enemy from landing. The only fortifications required were those that were necessary for the protection of our ships and arsenals. To build batteries along the coast for the enemy to land under was absurd. There was no doubt an enemy possessed greater facilities for landing and for the transport and embarkation of troops than he ever had before, and there were many points along the coast on which an enemy would have no
 410
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that in explanation he wished to say that he had not proposed that the force should not vary from year to year, but that there should be a  minimum
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he should defer his Motion until Thursday.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, the Bill was undoubtedly of a startling character in regard to some of its provisions, and would require careful consideration. He concurred in the principle of preventing vexatious indictments; nevertheless, he thought that it required some alteration in order to pro-
 444
 MR. G. CLIVE  said, he would move the second reading of this Bill. He proposed to take any discussion which might be thought desirable in Committee.
 MR. HADFIELD  complained that the Irish Presbyterians were the only Nonconformist body in the United Kingdom who received a single farthing from the Exchequer. He objected to such gentle-men as Drs. Montgomery, Scott, and Cooke, enjoying professorships when they had chapels for the administration of the duties of which they were likewise paid. It was now quite time that the Presbyterians should be put on the same healthy footing as other Nonconformists. They were most grudging in the support of their clergy, and he believed no greater service could be done to the denomination than by the withdrawal of this grant. Let them in future pay their own ministers and their own professors.
 MR. HADFIELD  contended that it was against the principle which had been repeatedly acknowledged in the House to grant any particular class of Her Majesty's subjects sums of money in order to their being educated in any particular industrial branch. They did not, for example, vote away money to teach the people to spin wool in Yorkshire or to make knives in Sheffield. Ireland was never more prosperous or contented than at the present moment. And he rejoiced at the fact; but he certainly thought it most absurd that the people of the United Kingdom should be called upon to pay for teaching the childern of Ireland music and needlework. He should certainly divide with the hon. Member for Lambeth against this Vote.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, with respect to the question brought forward in so temperate and graceful a manner by the hon. Member for Dungarvan, the general feeling must be that it was most desirable that so important and useful a body of men as these schoolmasters should be properly paid. There was in the present Estimates a considerable increase for the schoolmasters, and should it not be found sufficient he trusted the Government would reconsider the matter. With regard to the important subject of the system of Irish education, he had heard Irish Members say that that system had come to such a state that it was absolutely necessary that great changes in it should be made. However that might be, he desired to express his
 389
 MR. M'CANN  said, the right hon. and learned Gentleman had stated, that although Roman Catholic children attended many of the Protestant schools in Ireland, they never heard of any of them being perverted or converted to the Protestant faith, But why did the Roman Catholic children go to the Protestant schools? Was it not a
 427
 MR. BRADY  said, he must protest against the assertion that the working classes, or a majority of them, did not wish the public collections to be opened on a Sunday. After working from six in the morning till seven or eight at night, what time had they to visit museums or paintings except on Sundays? From his knowledge he was convinced that they were in favour of opening the museums on Sunday after two o'clock.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the Motion before the House was that he should now leave the chair, and the hon. and gallant Officer, having risen to submit another Resolution, was rightly in possession of the House.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he must remind the hon. and gallant Member that there were already an original Motion and an Amendment before the House; therefore, till one or the other of them was disposed of his Motion could not be put.
 MR. SPEAKER : No; the Motion now before the House is that I leave the Chair.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he most heartily concurred in the object which the hon. Member for Dungarvan had advocated at the close of his speech. As long as the pay of the teacher was inadequate it would be impossible to get the best and most respectable men to perform the important duties of that office. And it was impossible to look at the scale of fees commencing at £46 and going downwards to £14 with out at once seeing that they were grossly inadequate. The proposed increase was insufficient, and he could not believe that even £50 a year was enough for a man of intelligence and education. He thought, however, it would be necessary to institute an inquiry into the character and qualifications of those to whom increased salaries were to be paid, for it was a matter of notoriety, proved by sworn evidence in a court of justice, that seven or eight school-masters in the south of Ireland were impli-
 386
 MR. HENNESSY  said, as the hon. Member for Lambeth had allowed the Votes for industrial teaching in England to pass without the slightest comment, he could hardly be serious in his threat to divide the Committee on this Vote.
 MR. HENNESSY  called attention to the fact that this Vote was required on account of the practical failure of the system of mixed academical education in Ireland. A note in the Estimate stated that the Vote was necessary to meet certain
 428
 MR. JOHN LOCKE  said, he also was in favour of throwing open the museum between the hours of divine service. Indeed he thought that the House and the Government had broken faith with the donor in not opening the Sheepshanks' collection on Sundays. Hampton Court was open on Sundays, as were also Kew Gardens. He would ask the House whether any inconvenience would ensue from that? Had those institutions not kept people from the gin palaces and other such places on
 374
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said it would be a great benefit to the working classes if the Kensington Museum could be opened on Sunday afternoon. They would be kept out of gin palaces, and so far from religion being injured, it would be benefited.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  believed the disturbance among the dockyard men that had been referred to was caused by the infliction of corporal punishment upon a sailor within the view of the whole of the dockyard men, which was an unnecessary aggravation of the punishment.
 MR. MARSH  said, the seaboard of the Australian colonies was so vast that it was almost impossible that the troops could he provided to defend it. Such troops would he of very little use against external attack, and nothing was so unlikely as internal trouble among a population so prosperous and wealthy, unless the Government were very badly administered indeed. At present nothing could exceed their loyalty, and he thought that the advantages which the Colonies derived from their connection with Great Britain were even greater than those derived from it by the latter, seeing that they had nothing to pay either for armaments or diplomacy. With regard to the naval forces on the Australian coast, the British Navy would be as necessary there for the protection of British commerce as if Australia were independent. Almost every ship in the ports of that colony belonged to British subjects, and was insured at Lloyd's or in some other part of the United Kingdom, so that the colony would not be the losers if those ships were captured. The naval force on that coast was, therefore, an imperial question, but he maintained that to the land defences a very different principle applied.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he thought it was a mistake to give stewards and gardeners such a training as was afforded in these schools, but he would recommend the hon. Member for Lambeth not to divide the Committee.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, that as the object of the Education Vote was so very useful, it was difficult to propose any reduction in it. He found, however, that the expenditure for the Museum at South Kensington, commonly called the "Brompton Boilers," was increasing every year; and, though he did not object to the national collections in the metropolis, such as the British Museum, yet he did not think that the majolica and the china ware which were put into the Kensington collection justified the expenditure upon them, and the nation would he all the better for it if an earthquake swallowed them up. He should, therefore, in order to mark the sense of the House that that expenditure ought to be diminished, move that the Vote be reduced by £1,000.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he must protest against the collier of Newcastle and the weaver of Nottingham being called upon to pay for the amusement of Londoners. As the sense of the Committee appeared to be against him, however, he should not now press his Amendment.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he thought the best answer that could be given to the Motion of the hon. Member for Stirlingshire was to state the simple fact that no less than 450,000 persons had visited the museum at Kensington, and its success had somewhat defeated the vaticinations of some people, whose only objection to the museum seemed to have been founded upon the remoteness of the locality. The wonderful patronage bestowed on the School of Art was the best answer to all strictures.
 MR. SPOONER  considered the practice referred to highly objectionable, and one that did not benefit art. It was a most dangerous principle for the Government to support any institution for whose conduct it was not responsible, He would move that the grant to the Manchester school be wholly disallowed.
 MR. LOWE  said, that the term "professional assistance" did not refer to the models in question, but to occasional assistance in teaching. According to a return moved for by the noble Lord, of schools connected with the Department of Science and Art, where female models were employed, it appeared that there two such schools; but in one the model was always draped. In the other, the School of Art at Manchester, be believed the model was undraped, but that was a matter entirely under the management of the local committee. The Government money was strictly appropriated, and none of it was given for the payment of the nude female model.
 MR. LAING  said, he rose to move that the House go into Committee of Supply, and he would take the opportunity to appeal to hon. Gentlemen who had notices of Amendments upon that Motion to defer them until the evening sitting, when Supply would again be taken.
 MR. HALIBURTON  said, he had to thank the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for War for the manner in which he had treated the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman below him (Mr. Adderley). He was not aware when he read the notice what was the particular purport of the Motion, on account of the manner in which it was worded, and he confessed that he listened to the observations of the right hon. Gentleman with a great deal of anxiety as to whether he understood it rightly, and whether the right hon. Gen-
 407 408 409
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he trusted that Irish Members, from not opposing the introduction of the Bill, would not be considered to have assented to its principle. Any doubt he might feel arose from the approbation expressed by the hon. Member.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in reply to the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Coninghani), he had to observe that, whatever rumours might be in circulation, no step whatever had been taken by the present Government to his knowledge on the subject of the removal of the National Gallery. The Government had given no authority for any such rumours; and the question must therefore be considered as standing pre-
 370
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied that the Bill, although printed, had not yet been distributed to hon. Members, and therefore he could not press the second reading that evening. He would propose to take it the next day.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would remind the hon. and gallant Member that when Supply was fixed for morning sittings the attendance consisted chiefly, if not entirely, of Members who wished to discuss the Estimates, and therefore the hon. and gallant Member would be doing himself an injustice if he did not postpone his Motion until he had a more extended audience. SIR CHARLES NAPIER said, in that case he would accede to the suggestion, and defer his Motion until the evening sitting.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that, as the Vice President of the Council for Education, had explained
 372
 MR. BAXTER  said, that the Presbyterians were at present in connection with the Free Church of Scotland.
 MR. BAXTER  said, that as a Protestant Dissenter he always felt ashamed when he saw this Vote upon the Estimates. He would appeal to the hon. Member for North Warwickshire for his support, for it was his belief that if the House could be induced to refuse the Vote the path would be cleared, to some extent, for getting rid of Maynooth. There was no reason on earth why this large denomination of Christians should not pay their own theological professors. Among the disbursements was a sum of £250 a year to Dr. Cook, for filling the office of professor of sacred rhetoric— an office, he believed, which had never been heard of in any other country. He should therefore move to reduce the Vote to the sum of £450 being the amount of the retiring allowances.
 MR. CONINGHAM  observed, that there was an increase upon the Estimates of last year, and there was an idea abroad that the scheme of moving the National Gallery to Kensington was to be revived. He believed that nearly every one agreed that the air of Trafalgar Square was not more destructive to pictures than that of Ken-
 369
 MR. GARNETT  said, he thought that if the consideration of the Bill was postponed for a few days, until the evidence taken before the Select Committee could be printed, the House would then be in a position to deal with the measure. The Bill had been brought in to meet a necessity that had arisen out of a particular case in Manchester, where an experiment had been made in conveying coals from a neighbouring colliery into that city, but so high a rate of toll had been charged on the locomotive engine employed for that purpose as to be almost prohibitory of the traffic.
 MR. MASSEY  said, he would remind the Committee that the particular question under discussion was whether the Vote should be reduced by £1,000.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he thought the House ought to look at both sides of the question, and he must express his surprise that the hon. Gentleman should have passed over the Vote for English Education, amounting to £826,000 for the education of 800,000 children, in silence, and yet should grudge this comparatively small sum of £246,000 for the education of 500,000 children in Ireland. If justice were done, the English and Scotch taxpayers would have to put their hands in their pockets to the tune of £300,000 more. There could be no more legitimate expense than that incurred in teaching the people agriculture —the pursuit by which the majority of them had to gain their livelihood. As for singing, if he had his will it should be obligatory on every school to teach the children this most civilizing accomplishment. He could scarcely think the hon. Member serious in his opposition to instruction in sewing.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he also could bear testimony to the advantages of the Kensington Museum, which no one could visit without having his mind elevated and his taste improved. Much strong feeling had been exhibited in the city he represented (Aberdeen) against the employment of nude models in the Schools of Art, but as the Estimates contained no specific grant for that purpose, he thought the Amendment ought to be withdrawn.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, great good had arisen from the Schools of Design. Formerly English manufacturers were void of taste. Of late that taste was vastly improved, owing to the great advantage and advancement of manufactures. In his opinion the public money had never been spent to a more beneficial or useful purpose.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, his only reason for having asked for the name of the captain was because he thought the case which he had cited was one of undue punishment, He would not, however, press his request, understanding that it was now in contemplation by the Admiralty to take the question into their serious consideration. The subject was one of great importance. The Commander-in-Chief at Devonport had attributed the difficulty of getting men for the Navy to the prevalence of corporal punishment. He wished to state that the present commander of the  Princess Royal 367
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to call attention to several items in this Vote, which, it was understood last year, should not again appear in the Estimates for Irish Education. There were several of those items to which he objected, amongst which were the following:—Salaries of teachers of navigation, and purchase of nautical instruments; salaries of teachers of drawing and music; salaries of work mistresses in the ordinary National Schools, AMP; c. There was a long list under the head of model farms, class 11, which some of the Irish newspapers themselves had stated was as gross a piece of jobbery as ever was perpetrated, amounting in the whole to £4,274. There were also ninety agricultural schools maintained at a most extrava-
 420
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  inquired if it was not an understood thing at the establishment of the Belfast College that the institution was to merge into it.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he was glad to hear from the Chief Secretary for Ireland that these items were in course of diminution. He could not understand on what principle any English, Irish, or Scotch Member could support this Vote; but as he feared that he should not succeed in his opposition to it he would withdraw his Motion.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER : Am I at liberty now, Sir?
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, he rose to move that an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that she would be graciously pleased to appoint a Commission to inquire into the management of Greenwich Hospital. He was sorry to learn that the Government intended to oppose his Motion. He was at a loss to know why it should be opposed; for if there were abuses in the institution they should be corrected; and if there were none, the Government would then have a great triumph over him for having brought forward a Motion which was entirely useless. He believed that there were great faults in the management of Greenwich Hospital; and if ever there was a time when they should look into the matter and see that the seamen in that establishment got the same justice as the officers, now was that time. All the officers received their salary and their half-pay as well, and it was extremely hard that the seamen were not treated in the same way. The Governor had a pension of £300 a year
 417 s. s. d. s. d. s. d. 418 Asia 419 s. s.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  observed that he thought he ought to proceed with his Motion respecting Greenwich Hospital.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  observed that he was desirous that corporal punishment should be done away with, but the greatest possible caution was required in allowing it to die out. After the statement of the noble Lord, the first step which the Admiralty should take would be to deprive all captains of the power of inflicting corporal punishment, and to delegate the trial of all offenders to a court-martial on board the ship. The time was come when, for the sake of discipline as well as for the comfort of the men, they should know that when any one of them committed a crime he would be regularly judged by a court-martial.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he wished to remind the House that the word fortification did not occur in his Motion. Of course he quite felt the total absurdity of any attempt to fortify the whole of the English coast; but he thought the Commission should take a comprehensive view of all that was necessary to our national defences.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he should not trouble the House with many observa-
 400
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he rose to move the Resolution of which he had given notice. He had given notice of that Motion fully a month back, and it was only at the instance of the Secretary of State for War that he had so long postponed bringing it forward.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he believed that the clear statement of the hon. Member for Dungarvan must have weight with the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland. It was quite evident that things could not remain in their present state. He thought the hon. Gentleman right in demanding an increase of salary for the teachers of his own communion, but the Committee must not forget that not one shilling was allowed to the Protestant teachers of Protestant schools connected with education in Ireland. Was that right? The whole system must be recast, if it was desired to give satisfaction, for the Government could not go on excluding one large portion of the population from all the benefits of the national endowment.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to inquire of the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he intended to proceed that evening with the Income-tax Bill, which had not yet been printed.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he understood the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty to imply that coporal punishment would die a natural death from the  status 368
 MR. ARNOTT  said, he could bear testimony to the deserving character and services of the Presbyterian clergy of Ulster, whose incomes were by no means too large.
 SIR JOHN PAXTON  said, he could bear testimony to the admirable manner in which the Department of Science and Art was carried on. Much good was effected throughout the country by what was called the "travelling museum," which had been visited by a large number of persons. That the museum at South Kensington was attractive was proved by the vast numbers that visited it last year. Nevertheless, he thought there ought to be some limit to the expense, which had risen from £40,000 to £90,000; but he could not support the Amendment to deduct £1,000 from the Vote, as that could not be carried without deranging the Estimate.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, he did not rise to enter into the general question of education, which was, however, in a position demanding the utmost care and vigilance. He should he glad to see any alterations which would conciliate more gene-
 387
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Whatever may be the views of the House as to the constitution of the Commission announced by my right hon. Friend, its appointment is a question of very great importance. I do not think there will be any advantage in adding to its inquiries, so as to make them of a larger character than those which have been indicated by my right hon. Friend. In the first place, it would so extend the
 413
 COLONEL WYNNE  observed that he would resist the proposed addition, on the ground that the matter had been fully inquired into.
 MR. EWING  said, that three barristers, who lived within 150 yards of the works, and a number of chemical witnesses were examined by the Committee, and their evidence was to the effect that no disagreeable effects were experienced from the gas works, in consequence of the efficient way in which they were conducted. The surgeon of the police force in the neighbourhood likewise declared that the police suffered no inconvenience in respect to their health from the works. The refuse of the gas did not go into the Thames, but was carried away in close vessels. As a Member of the Committee he should strenuously oppose the Amendment.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that no less than seventy-eight barristers residing in the Temple, 453 householders in the neighbourhood, and 692 consumers of gas had signed a petition in favour of the company. He had been over the building, and thought it was impossible for anything to be better conducted. There was no smell of any description whatever, and he trusted the House would not allow the Bill to be referred back to a Committee.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  thought it was hardly fair to say that the opposition to the Bill was wholly interested; for he believed that there was an opposition on the part of the Corporation of London founded on public grounds. At the same time he should support the decision of the Committee unless some extraordinary ground was alleged for referring the Bill to a new Committee. The ground in this case was that the company in going before the Committee for a renewal of their term, and seeking to convert it into a perpetuity, alleged the great
 464
 MR. NEWDEGATE* : Mr. Speaker, I can assure the hon. Baronet the Member for Tavistock (Sir John Trelawny), that if I could propose the Amendments, of the substance of which I have given notice, in Committee on his Bill, consistently with the Rules of the House, I should not have adopted a course which seems to offer an
 465 "That this House will, to-morrow, resolve itself into a Committee, to consider the propriety of establishing in lieu of church rates, thenceforth to be abolished, a charge on all hereditaments in respect of the occupancy of which church rates have been paid within the last seven years, such charge to be levied with the county rate, at an uniform rate of poundage, the occupier being in all cases entitled to deduct from his rent the amount of the charge levied on his occupation." 466 467 d. 468 469 d. d. 470 d. d. d. 471 472 473 474 475
 MR. HENLEY  observed that the remedy proposed by the hon. Member for North-Warwickshire was worse than the disease it professed to cure. The imposition of a certain charge upon property would be a greater burden and cause more dissatisfaction than the present church rates. As a sincere Churchman he did not think the interests of the Church would be promoted by such a course, and believed it would be better to abolish church rates at once, after which it would be the duty of those who were attached to the Church of England to devise the best means of supporting her fabrics and conducting her services. When the Bill passed and this awkward question was set at rest, then the time would come for the sons of the Church of England to meet together, and fix upon some plan by which, through voluntary efforts, the fabric of the church might be maintained.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, that though anxious to see the question of church rates settled, he could not support the Amendment of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, to make that compulsory which was now somewhat voluntary in its nature. He believed that a large portion of the community was prepared to listen to a voluntary compromise on the
 477
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that this was matter for complaint to the Speaker and not to the Committee.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that as at that hour (half-past three o'clock) it was impossible to make any progress in Committee he would appeal to the hon. Baronet to postpone the Bill. It was perfectly clear that legislation on the subject could not be brought to a satisfactory conclusion in the present Session. A Select Committee of the House of Lords was inquiring into the whole subject, and that Committee had been appointed with the consent of the Government, some of the members of which were upon it. How could the hon. Baronet expose his new allies on the Treasury bench to the humiliating and mortifying position they must occupy if they were assenting parties to send up to the other House a Bill for the total and immediate repeal of church rates, when they themselves, by their colleagues in that House, were assisting in an inquiry on the subject? It would be treating not only the other branch of the Legislature but the Government and the question itself with great want of decorum if now, at the end of July, they proceeded, without due discussion and proper inquiry, to send the present Bill up to the other House. If these reasons were not sufficiently cogent he thought a glance at the host of Amendments on the paper would be sufficient. A principle Member of the Administration in that House alone had placed a "code" of Amendments on the paper, all of which it would be quite impossible to consider before the end of the Session. Moreover, it was not proper that this great question, which clearly ought to be in the hands of the Government, should be taken up in this piecemeal fashion, and that this gigantic inroad upon one of the oldest institutions of the country — the parochial system—
 478
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he wished to call attention to a point of interest. The hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley) had admitted that he had a personal interest in the subject under discussion. It was a rule of the House that no hon. Member could vote on any matter in which he had a personal interest. That being so, he would ask was it competent for the hon. Member to make a Motion in such a case?
 MR. ADDERLEY  observed, that he could not see the grievance of church rates in parishes where they were unanimously levied. Why should it be rendered illegal for parishes to levy them if they liked to do so? He believed that if the Bill passed, the burden of maintaining the churches would fall upon the worst-paid men in the country, namely, the clergy of the Established Church. The right hon. Baronet ought to be too happy to adopt the Amendment.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  rose to inform the Speaker that on the last division, the bell by which hon. Members should be summoned to a division was not sounded so as to be heard by a large number of hon. Members, who were consequently prevented from voting.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  observed, that when a new trial was moved for in a court of law, the Judges decided on that Motion by reference to the evidence previously given, but the House was now called on to decide in favour of a new inquiry without being in possession of the evidence taken by the former Committee. If there were any nuisance created, the company could be indicted. He was informed there had been an indictment and a conviction standing over, but that told in favour of the company, for if the nuisance had not been abated, the conviction could have been enforced at any moment.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, that in the absence of the hon. and learned Member for Suffolk (Sir F. Kelly) he wished to move that the Bill be recommitted to anew Committee, to be appointed by the Committee of Selection, and that the Committee have leave to sit and proceed on Friday. He founded the Motion on the ground that the Chairman of the Committee had prevented the continuance of a certain course of examination, the object of which was to show that, while the Gas Clauses Act of 1847 restricted other gas companies to a profit of 10 per cent, requiring that any further profit should be applied to the reduction of the price of gas, the City Gas Company had deprived the public of that advantage by increasing their capital by surplus profits from £200,000 to £300,000. The opponents of the Bill considered the course taken by the Chairman of the Committee as tantamount to a denial of justice, and he consequently moved that the Bill be recommitted.
 MR. G. CLIVE  observed, that in the Committee-room in which he had been engaged no division bell was heard.
 MR. HENEAGE  said, he wished to state that as one of the Committee which had considered this Bill he saw no objection to the proposed addition.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he wished to explain that in moving himself in this matter he acted on the advice of his Parliamentary agents, who had cited high precedent for that course. In adopting it he did not do so for the purpose of influencing the House
 461
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he rose to move an Amendment. The Bill proposed to make a railway from Ruabon to Llangollen, and in its course would pass through ornamental ground—a park belonging to himself, He had opposed the Bill by counsel both in this and the other House of Parliament, and in the Committee of the House of Lords an Amendment had been intro-
 460
 MR. CLAY  said, that in the Committee-room, where he was at the time, no bell rung at all. Some thirty or forty hon. Members, accidentally heard from a policeman that a division was going on, but they arrived in the House too late to vote. He supposed it would be found that "nobody" was to blame.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that he would cause inquiry to be made into the circumstance, and he hoped the proper officer would take means in future to prevent the recurrence of such a fault.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, there certainly was a rule of the House by virtue of which the hon. Member for Peterborough could not vote upon a subject in which he was personally interested, and he had received an intimation from the hon. Member that it was not his intention to vote upon the question. There was also a rule that hon. Members could not present petitions from themselves to that House, and it was certainly not at all in the ordinary course of proceeding that a matter of immediate personal interest should be conducted by the hon. Member actually interested; but, with the reservation of not voting, he (Mr. Speaker) could not say there was anything absolutely out of order in the course taken by the hon. Member for Peterborough.
 MR. DODSON  said, he must oppose the scheme which had been sketched out by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire. Other modes of arriving at an adjustment between conflicting opinions might have been proposed. The landowners might have been called on to redeem church rates by the payment of a fixed sum; but they would have been chary of supporting a proposition which would lead them into an expenditure which they desired others to share. He could never understand in what sense church rates could be said to be property belonging to the church. They only resulted from a power given to the people to tax themselves for certain objects. He would not enter upon the question of whether the rates were a charge upon property; but, even if they were, the charge was of so uncertain a character that it could not be estimated. The old arrangement that people should make a rate upon themselves was right when there was but one religion
 476
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, there was no imputation whatever sought to be thrown on the Committee by the present Amendment. All that was imputed was simply a mistake of judgment. When there was an appeal from the Chief Justice of the Queen's Bench, the matter was remitted back to the whole Court, and no imputation was thought to be cast on the Judge by that course of proceeding. He was greatly surprized to hear from the hon. Member that the making-of gas was not injurious
 463
 MR. ROEBUCK  seconded the Amendment.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, that in rising to move that the House do go into Committee upon this Bill, he would appeal to the hon. Member for North Warwickshire not to press the Amendment of which he had given notice at the present stage, but to move it in Committee. That would be the more appropriate course.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, that as an independent Member he did not think he was called on to withdraw his Bill on the grounds put forward by the noble Lord. He had been at all times ready to proceed with it, and it was not his fault that they were now at the end of July. It would be unwise in the House to lose further time in discussing whether they would go on with the Bill, instead of considering the Bill itself. He did not bring forward the Bill as a delusion or a sham, and it would be his duty to propose proceeding with it, from night to night, and hour to hour, until he got a decision on it.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, that the hon. Member proposed to alter the nature of the burdens, which was now a charge on the person, into a charge upon land. He must therefore oppose the Amendment, which, while it practically threw obstruction in the way of going into Committee, introduced a vicious principle of "counter irritation," the effect of which could only tend to occasion additional discontent. On the other hand his (Sir J. Trelawny's) object was to put an end to the excitement on this subject once and for ever, and by the agency of the voluntary principle in this matter, he believed that the Church would be placed in a better position. At present if an attempt were made to enforce a general payment of church rates all the gaols in the kingdom would not hold the defaulters, and the standing army would have to be doubled.
 MR. WALTER  observed, that he could state from his own experience that while he was sitting in Committee-room No. 8, within the last fortnight, on several occasions divisions took place and no bell was rung.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he must oppose the Amendment.
 MR. SPOONER  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. BARROW  said, that as the Chairman of the Committee by whom the Bill had been considered, he felt bound to oppose the Motion. He would acknowledge the courtesy of the hon. and gallant Member in giving him verbal notice of his intention to make this Motion; but at the same time he must complain that notice had not been given to the other Members of the Committee, who were therefore not present to oppose it. The Committee over which he had presided were perfectly unanimous in the decision to which they had come; as, he believed, were the Committee of the House of Lords, which had considered the question previously. The opponents of the Bill attempted before the Committee, by a cross examination of the first witness, to show that the company had received large profits and bonuses in bygone years, but
 462
 MR. BARROW  said, that that evidence had satisfied the Committee that no offensive refuse from the gas works was discharged into the Thames.
 MR. MASSEY  said, he must oppose the Amendment. He thought the proceeding suggested by the Amendment was as unprecedented as assuredly it would be inconvenient. The Committee to whom it was proposed to refer the Bill would not be vested with greater powers than those which the Committee who had considered the Bill were possessed of. He could understand a proposition to refer the Bill back to the same Committee, but it would be a reflection on that Committee to adopt the Amendment, while no satisfactory result could follow from such a proceeding. The appeal asked for was not one from an inferior to a superior jurisdiction, but from one jurisdiction to another on an equality with it. In his opinion, however, no case for a reference had been made out.
 MR. MASSEY  said, he thought it was not the practice of the House to revise the proceedings of its Select Committees, for to do so would take away all confidence in the decisions of those bodies.
 MR. VANSITTART  said, that about twenty hon. Members who had been engaged in the Committee-rooms and in the library, had not heard the division bell before the division just taken and were thus prevented from taking a part in it.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he attributed the Opposition to the Bill to a rival company. It was an extraordinary proposition, after one Committee had been appointed by the House to try the matter, to refer the Bill to another.
 MR. CROSS  said, he would propose in line 12, after the word "levied" to leave out "in any parish in England or Wales," and insert
 "Respectively in the following cases in any parish in England or Wales:—First. No Church Rate shall be made or levied in any parish in which no Church Rate has been made or levied during the seven years next previous to the passing of this Act. Second. No Church Rate shall be levied upon any person who shall deliver to the churchwardens, within one week after the rate shall have been demanded of such person, a declaration under his hand that he  bonâ fide 479
 THE SOLICTOR GENERAL  said, he entirely concurred with his hon. and learned Friend in the propriety of passing the first clause of the Bill, for he was of opinion that a minority of the County Court Judges, some thirteen or fourteen out of sixty—put a wrong construction on the 98th section of the County Court Act. It was important that doubts on the point should be removed, for all the hardships and scandal with respect to these commitments had arisen from that erroneous though conscientious construction of the law. The late Lord Chancellor directed the standing committee of the County Court Judges, which regulated the practice and framed the rules for those Courts, to ascertain what the practice of the County Court Judges had been in respect to the matter to which the attention of the House had been called. Their report had unfortunately been laid on the table only the night previous, but from that it appeared that it was only thirteen or fourteen of those Judges, as he had just stated, who put that peremptory construction of which the hon. and learned Gentleman complained on the 98th section of the Act. He therefore thought that the public was indebted to the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth for introducing the present measure to set the matter at rest. In the report he had just mentioned it was stated that the County Court Judges approved the present Bill in reference to the 98th section of the Act; but they were of a different opinion in regard to the second clause, limiting the amount of imprisonment. All the abuses had arisen from the erroneous construction of the 98th section, but the County Court Judges considered the second clause of the present Bill most impolitic, and thought that instead of operating as a relief to the lower classes it would produe the opposite ef-
 483
 MR. HENLEY  said, that there was no wish to prevent credit being given to the poorer classes, or to deprive creditors of the means of obtaining their money; but the House had to consider whether the poorer class of persons who came within the purview of the County Court system had not a harder measure of justice dealt out to them than persons obtaining credit in a different situation. He strongly objected to the imprisonment which the Bill proposed to abolish. The commitment was, in fact, not for debt, but  in poenam;
 MR. PAGET  observed, that the effect of the measure would be to destroy credit; in his opinion a very cruel proceeding to the labouring classes themselves. He would therefore move that the Chairman report progress, in order to allow time for the Report of the Committee of the County Court Judges to be printed, and to give an opportunity to hon. Members connected with manufacturing districts to communicate with their constituents on the subject.
 MAJOR STUART  said, he hoped that as the Bill would restrict the power of imprisonment it would receive the assent of the Committee and the sanction of the House. He found that a large proportion of the debts for which persons were subject to imprisonment by County Court Judges were contracted with travelling hawkers, frequently by wives without the knowledge of their husbands, who, however, suffered for their imprudence. In his own district (Bedfordshire) he found that the number of debtors committed by the County Court Judges was, in 1855, 40; in 1856, 60; in 1857, 93; and in 1858, 122—a large proportion of these persons having been consigned to prison at the suit of travelling hawkers. The increase in the number of commitments was, he believed, attributable in a great measure to a recent change in the law, by which the cost of conveying debtors to prison under County Court commitments was transferred from the plaintiffs to the Treasury. Some of the persons committed were young women under the age of 21, and in one case a girl of 19 was sent to prison because she had not paid for a shawl sold to her by a travelling hawker some five years before, when she was only 14 or 15 years of age. He be-
 485 minimum,
 MR. PAGET  consented to the suggestion. Clause 1  agreed to.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to express his opinion that power ought to be given to the County Court Judge to call the defendant before him and examine him in ordinary cases, the same as in cases of insolvency.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he would suggest to the hon. Member(Mr. Paget) that it was most desirable that he should not press his Amendment, and that the better course would be to allow the Committee to proceed with the discussion of the clauses. One point to which he would direct attention was, that the County Court Judge had a double capacity. He was a Judge of the County Court for small debts, and also a Judge in insolvency. As a Judge in insolvency he possessed the power of bringing up the insolvent before him for examination, and of putting any questions to him with regard to his debts; but it so happened that he had not that power in his capacity of County Court Judge. The consequence was that he could not bring up a debtor to be examined, or put questions to him on the subject of his debts; and it was in that inability that the necessity for the power of imprisonment resided. If the County Court Judge could have the debtor before him there would be no necessity for falling back upon that which was an imperfect resource, the examination of the plaintiff. A Judge had no originative power; he could only examine the witnesses that were brought before him by the plaintiff or the defendant, or examine the parties themselves if they appeared. If he had not the power of compelling the attendance of the defendant all he could do was to examine the witnesses produced, and if he were deprived of the power of imprisonment, or if that power were materially curtailed, he would be deprived of the power of operating upon the defendant altogether, and in a corresponding degree the disposition to give credit would be diminished. If a person could not recover the debt, of course he would not give credit; and in the exact proportion in which the remedy of the creditor was diminished, was necessarily diminished the inducement to give credit. Now in his opinion there had been a disposition to form too harsh an estimate of the conduct of the County Court Judges as a body in respect to the exercise of this power of imprisonment. The system of small debts courts, it should he recollected, had not been created by
 488
 Mr. HENLEY  said, that under the
 492
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he agreed with the right hon. Member (Mr. Henley) that the ancient office of Sheriff had undergone great changes in consequence of recent legislation. Originally the Sheriff was at the head of the criminal courts in the county, and unquestionably it was his constitutional duty to keep order at the assizes, and, perhaps, also at sessions. In our quiet times a forcible attempt to rescue a prisoner was not, perhaps, to be apprehended, though a celebrated instance of the kind occurred in a State trial at the
 493
 MR. LYGON  said, he hoped that the gallant Admiral would not persevere in his Motion, seeing that the present Board of Admiralty could have had no opportunity of examining into the subject. The career of the late Board, too, had been cut short before they were enabled to inquire. Much dissatisfaction certainly prevailed respecting the management of Greenwich Hospital, and next year, failing any action on the part of the Government, he should be very happy to support the Motion for a Commission.
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  said, he should have supposed that the duty of offering explanations upon a subject such as that under the consideration of the Committee would have devolved on the Vice President of the Council of Education, rather than upon the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whose time was so much occupied in attending to other departments of public business. But, be that as it might, he wished to receive from the Chancellor of the Exchequer some explanation as to the arrangements which were being made for the removal of the Royal Academy from Trafalgar Square. It was rumoured that the Government were about to confer a donation of £70,000 or £80,000 on that society in the shape of a site at Burlington House, and it was not, in his opinion, right that such a project should be carried out without some explanation with respect to it being afforded to the public, He perceived that temporary buildings were being erected at South Kensington for the purpose of affording accommodation for pictures during the period occupied in the removal of the Royal Academy from its present site; but inasmuch as those buildings were being constructed to last seventy or eighty years, while the process of removing to which he referred would not necessitate the supply of accommodation for the pictures in question for more than a
 504
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that it would be competent for the hon. Member to do so.
 LORD HENNIKER  said, he had lately seen ail account in the newspapers that at the Hampshire assizes the Judges, of whom Baron Watson was one, wore preceded into town by policemen, and if there were any objection to the employment of policemen, Baron Watson, being a Judge of great authority on the subject, would have taken it. As the Bill was so short he trusted it
 494
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, it was perhaps more desirable that the representatives of the late rather than those of the present Government should reply to the observations which had been made by the hon. Gentleman with regard to the removal of the Royal Academy. He might, therefore, be allowed to state that the hon. Member must have forgotten the extremely lucid statement which the then Chancellor of the Exchequer had made some months ago. That statement was a full narrative of the relations in which the Government stood to the Royal Academy, and a summary of all the transactions which had taken place in the matter; and it was so clear, explicit, and straightforward that it met with the general approbation both of the House and the country.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that with respect to the Gallery in Trafalgar Square the late Government had come to no decision whatever in regard to the future appropriation of the site to be vacated by the Royal Academy.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he trusted the Motion for reporting progress would not be persisted in, for he felt that if there were but one hour left remaining of the Session it could not be more profitably spent than in the endeavour to pass this Bill. He wished to call the attention of the hon. and learned Solicitor General to one point with respect to which the existing law operated very oppressively. He had been told that it was competent to a creditor to go
 486 s. d.
 MR. LEFROY,  the Chairman of the Committee appointed to try the Petition against the return of Mr. E. Schenley,
 510
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, his hon. Friend could not have read the Bill. It was well known that the Judges had the power to impose a heavy fine on Sheriffs for the non-attendance of javelin-men—a power which more than once they had exercised; and it was proposed by this Bill to take away the power. This was not a question of keeping order, but of state and pageantry; and there was no pageantry in having twenty-four decrepit old men moving before the Judge, and
 495
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, he was of the same opinion. The excitement in the City was very great against the Bill, and the Government ought at once to give an answer whether they would go on with it or not.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, it was altogether a fallacy to say that a power of inflicting perpetual imprisonment was necessary to sustain credit. He would therefore express his hope that some limit would be placed upon the terms of imprisonment imposed by County Courts. The present system of imprisoning debtors for successive terms was most oppressive, and he thought this Bill would be beneficial, inasmuch as its most important feature was to propose that there should be something like a limit to the period of imprisonment.
 COLONEL FRENCH  observed, that he thought the decision of the House on the previous occasion, not to send the Bill to another Committee, would increase the discontent that prevailed in respect of the contradictory decisions arrived at by Committees of that House.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he intended to vote for the Motion of the hon. Member for Brighton. Considering the financial diffculties in which the country was placed, it appeared to him reckless extravagance to vote such large sums for purposes not of pressing importance. The first consideration ought to be to have the defences of the country placed in a satisfactory position.
 MR. G. CLIVE  said, he would move that the second reading of this Bill be postponed until Monday next.
 MR. G. CLIVE  said, his right hon. Friend at the head of the Home Office had been obliged to leave the House, in order to attend a Cabinet Council, but he would doubtless return before the hour of adjournment, and state whether he intended to go on with the Bill or not.
 MR. G. CLIVE  remarked, that if the House wished to allow a system of credit for the benefit of the lower classes and of trade, then a power of summary punishment must be given against the debtor in certain cases. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) had said that, if there were fraud in respect to a debt, let that fraud be once for all punished. But it should he borne in mind that these imprisonments under the County Courts were for nonpayment of debt, accompanied by continual ability to pay it. Consequently, the Judge went on ordering the imprisonment of the debtor so long as the latter had money in his pocket, in order to obtain that money for the creditor, a working man in many cases who had charitably made a loan to his fellow workman, who ungratefully avoided repayment. As to the injury so much spoken of, generally the only person who could give any information was either the plaintiff or the defendant. If the defendant
 484
 MR. HUNT (Northampton)  said, that in the county which he represented they had now in force the very system which his hon. Friend by this Bill proposed to make general throughout the country. The javelin men had proved so inefficient that a committee of gentlemen who had served the office of High Sheriff, had been appointed to consider some better means of preserving order. The head constable being appealed to, said he could furnish sufficient policemen to keep order without throwing additional expense on the county. The Judges themselves had since admitted that order was now much better kept than before. They had considered the difficulty suggested by the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) and they got over it in this way. They authorized the head constable to place a certain number of men under the orders of the High Sheriff during the time of the assizes, so that for that time at least there was no conflicting jurisdiction. Seeing, then, that the system worked so well in his county, he thought there could be no reason why the Bill should not be proceeded with, and made the law of the land.
 MR. HODGKINSON  said, there seemed to be a disposition to treat this Bill as if it related only to debts of very small amount, but it must be remembered that the County Courts exercised jurisdiction in cases of debts up to the amount of £50, and he thought if this Bill were passed it would operate prejudicially to the interests of creditors whoso debts were of any considerable amount. If the Bill passed in its present form no debtor would ever appear on a judgment summons, but creditors would have to search the country round for evidence as to the debtor's means of payment, and in many cases it would be the creditor's interest to lose his debt rather than incur such labour and expense. He thought that after a creditor had proved his debt the  onus probandi
 MR. PAULL  said, he bad had some experience of the working of the power of imprisonment now exercised by the County
 487
 MR. CLAY  said, he should vote for the reduction, not because he objected to expenditure for promoting art, but because he was dissatisfied with the system and the taste which had been shown in the purchases.
 MR. BRISCOE  said, the Motion was not brought on in opposition to the Government. The hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Lygon) admitted that great improvements were necessary, and the best way to bring them about would be to have an inquiry by a Commission. He felt disposed to hope that the hon. and gallant Member's Motion would have been passed unanimously. Upon what ground was it opposed? Why, solely on the ground of expense. But he thought that the expense must depend upon management, and he could not admit the validity of the excuse. The hon. and gallant Admiral was in earnest in his Motion, and his exertions on behalf of the navy were fully appreciated by the public. Year after year he had pointed out the abuses without obtaining a remedy; and it was high time for the House to interfere. He hoped, therefore, the hon. and gallant Admiral would divide the House on the question.
 MR. HOPWOOD  said, he felt bound to yield to the suggestions of his hon. Friends, and therefore would not press the Bill this Session, but hoped to re-introduce it early next Session.
 MR. JOHN LOCKE  said, he thought the remarks of the hon. Gentleman showed that this Bill was not necessary, as the gentry of the county had the power to effect all that was necessary without having recourse to legislation at all.
 MR. JOHN LOCKE  said, the same pro raises of reforming abuses had been made, and had invariably been broken, by successive Boards of Admiralty. It was the duty
 499
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that there seemed to be some confusion as to the functions of a Commission. You did not take away the responsibility of a Government by setting a Commission to inquire. "Depend upon the Government," said the right hon. Baronet. He would do no such thing. Tell him what the evil was, and then he could hold the Government responsible for curing it, but he would not depend on the Government for telling him, and a Commission, therefore, was absolutely necessary. He recollected an inquiry into the Municipal Corporations and an inquiry into the Poor Law. Did anybody suppose that the Government could have carried out those inquiries without assistance? The fact was that Greenwich Hospital was known as a very nest of corruption, and he would not
 500
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he believed that opposition was to be expected, and therefore, although he thought the Bill was in many respects an excellent one, he would also recommend its withdrawal for the present. At the same time he thought the House was indebted to the hon. Member for Clithero for having turned his attention to a subject which was of greater importance than was generally supposed.
 MR. WISE  said, he objected to proceeding with the measure at that late period of the Session. The change which
 489 490
 MR. HUMBERSTON  said, he should not oppose the passing of the Bill, though he thought it was in a very imperfect condition and did not touch the main greivances to which High Sheriffs were subjected. In his opinion the subject of the duties and expenses of High Sheriffs ought to be carefully investigated by a Select Committee, and a measure introduced by the Government in a future Session.
 MR. HUMBERSTON  remarked that he approved the suggestion for withdrawal.
 MR. SPOONER  said, the hon. Member who had just spoken could hardly have been in the House when the hon, and gallant Admiral made his statement the other night. On that occasion so many abuses and grievances were brought forward as to convince him (Mr. Spooner) that an inquiry ought no longer to be delayed. Promises to that effect had been frequently made, but, as it appeared, those promises were never kept. He should therefore support the Motion.
 MR. SPOONER  considered that the enjoyment felt at the contemplation of pictures of the highest character could be only felt by men of the most refined tastes, and who had opportunities of comparison which the million did not possess, and it seemed very doubtful whether such collections advanced art generally. It was, moreover, extremely undesirable, after the statement which had been made by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer a few days ago, that the national resources should be expended on any other than really necessary objects;
 505
 MR. SPOONER  said, he felt disposed to take the sense of the Committee as to the expediency of reducing the Vote under discussion by the £10,000 to which reference had been made by the hon. Member for Lambeth, and he should therefore like to know whether it was competent for him to propose that reduction after the Amendment of the hon. Member for Brighton had been disposed of?
 MR. SPOONER  said, he would then move that the Vote be reduced by the sum of £10,000. The proposal to vote that sum for the purchase of pictures was an unconstitutional application of the public money. He had always opposed it, and he opposed it more especially now, when they had been called upon by the Chancellor of the Exchequer to assist in reducing the Civil Estimates. It might be said that it was a trifle, but all large sums were made up of smaller ones, which in comparison might be called trifles. When for purposes of defence they were obliged to impose an extra income tax on men earning their £2 a week, they ought not to spend £10,000 in the purchase of pictures. As to promoting art, it ought not to be done by taxing the public. He did not see why they should undertake to
 508
 MR. COLLIER  said, as there appeared to be some misapprehension as to the nature and objects of this Bill, he wished briefly to state what its intentions really were. It was supposed by some that his object was to abolish altogether the power of imprisonment for small debts by County Court Judges; but all he proposed to do was simply to put an end to the power of imprisonment without a hearing. According to the opinion of some lawyers, his Bill would not alter the law at all. One of the clauses of the County Courts Act gave to Judges in those courts power to commit persons to prison in the following cases, viz.: —If a party appeared before them, and gave unsatisfactory answers; if a party did not appear, and the Judge was satisfied from the evidence that the debt was contracted fraudulently, or that the party had the means of paying it, while refusing to do so. That was the interpretation, he ventured to say, most hon. Members would give to the clause on reading it. Some of the County Court Judges, however, had interpreted that clause as giving them power to commit a person without any inquiry whatever; and it often happened that illness or other circumstances which could be satisfactorily explained, prevented the attendance of the party, who was punished with imprisonment. The real question therefore was whether a County Court Judge should commit with or without inquiry? Upon a previous occasion he had shown that no less than 8,000 persons had been so committed during the past year, and the committal, it must be borne in mind, was simply a punishment, not operating as an extinguishment of the debt. With regard to the treatment of prisoners so committed, he found it stated in a newspaper that they were stripped upon entering the gaol, their clothes searched, their diet limited, and only two hours a day allowed for exercise. He had received a communication from the governor of Carlisle gaol, pointing out the hardships involved in the operation of the
 482
 MR. COLLIER  said, that after the discussion which had taken place he would so suggest that the hon. Member (Mr. Paget) should withdraw his Motion for reporting progress, and that after the first clause, which was generally approved of by the County Count Judges themselves', had been agreed to, the hon. Member should move the omission of the second and only other clause.
 MR. LAING  said, he wished the House to understand that the question was not whether there should or should not be an inquiry, but whether that inquiry should be conducted in the first instance by the noble Duke at the head of the Admiralty and other officers of that department, or by a Commission. The question of expense certainly ought not to be overlooked, and he wished to put it to the House by which of the two ways the inquiry was likely to be more satisfactorily and economically carried out.
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, his noble Friend (Lord C. Paget) had been called away on professional duty, and in his absence he should be obliged to oppose the Motion, as he hardly thought the House was prepared to enter upon a course which must entail a serious expenditure. The gallant Admiral had stated on a previous occasion that the salaries of the officers of Greenwich Hospital amounted to £25,000, while the sum spent on the maintenance of the pensioners was only £33,000 a year. He had, however, omitted a great many items which ought to be included in the cost of maintaining the men, such as £5,000 for the wages of the servants, who were most of them pensioners, £6,000 for clothing, £4,000 for household stores, together with the cost of maintaining the sick in the infirmary, and two or three other items, which really raised the pensioners' account to something like £60,000 a year. He complained, too, that some of the Commissioners were nonresident, the fact being that only one of them was, and that because there was no residence for him. There might be some points in the management of the hospital which admitted of improvement, but the present Admiralty had been so short a time in office it was impossible for them to have examined the subject. During the recess, however, they would look into the funds and the expenditure, and would endeavour to carry out any improvements, which appeared desirable. Meanwhile, he put it to the House whether it was worth while to incur the expense of a Commission.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he felt obliged to oppose it. It proposed to repeal an Act of Parliament which pro-vented a mayor of any borough from having the insignia of his office carried before him to any other place of worship than the Established Church.
 MR. HANKEY  said, he thought the House was not then in a position to decide the question. He for one was not prepared to submit this question to four or five old Admirals. He thought the inquiry ought not to be made without more definite materials than the House had before them at present.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he wished to offer one word in reply to the observations of the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Coningham), than whom no one was more competent by the exercise of his knowledge in pictorial art to advise the Committee to deal on the subject before them. The system upon which the National Gallery was now based had been established by a Treasury minute dated 1855, and was to last for five years. That period would expire in 1860, when it would become the undoubted duty of the Government to reconsider every part of the subject in the interests of the public and of art, and, if they deemed it expedient, to alter the existing system for the better. The hon. Member for Lambeth suggested that it would be desirable not to take the Vote of £10,000 for pictures in the present year, but the hon. Gentleman should bear in mind that a very special occasion—that of the sale of Lord Northwick's pictures—presented itself just now for the expenditure of the money, and that it was not, therefore, convenient that the Vote should be reduced by the amount which he proposed. Whether it would be well that a smaller sum should in future be voted to be placed at the absolute discretion of the trustees of the National Gallery, while any larger amount should depend for its application on the decision of Parliament, was a question which he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) deemed well worthy of consideration. He was of that opinion, because it was obvious that occasion for the expenditure of so large a sum as that of £10,000 could not arise in the course of each year, inasmuch as pictures did not come into the market in so regular a manner. So far as travelling expenses were concerned, he
 503
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in reply to the observations of the hon. Member for Poole (Mr. Danby Seymour) he had to state that, so far as the buildings at South Kensington were concerned, Her Majesty's Government in making use of them had no intention whatever of interfering in any way with the resolution at which the House of Commons had arrived with reference to the National Gallery. Those buildings were erected merely for the purpose of temporary accommodation, while, with regard to the disposal of the site of Burlington House, and the devoting of the entire of the building in Trafalgar-square to the
 506
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that as the Treasury Minute, although no authority of itself, had been communicated to the House, and Votes had been granted in conformity with it, a constructive obligation arose towards individuals affected by it. The only two grounds assigned for the reduction were, first, that such Votes were unconstitutional; and, secondly, that the management was bad. He frankly confessed that upon neither of those grounds could he support the Motion.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it would be for the convenience of the public if this Bill were now read a second time, and the discussion taken on the Committee to-morrow.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Committee on the Bill would be taken the next evening, immediately after the statement of his noble Friend the Secretary of State on Foreign Affairs.
 MR. ANGERSTEIN  said, he would request the hon. and gallant Admiral to wait and see what the Government would do. If he found that their pledges were not fulfilled, it would be time to move for a Commission. At present he (Mr. Angerstcin) was willing to support the Government.
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he wished to remind the Committee that a valuable site had been recently granted to the Royal Academy, thereby riveting its despotic authority over the artists of this country, while, with the superior advantages thus conferred upon it, it would probably ruin all the other competing societies of London. This, too, was done without the necessity of applying to the House of Commons for a Vote. The expenditure on the National Gallery was steadily increasing, and it had been administered in a most unsatisfactory manner. Originally, as the Committee knew, the building was intended for the reception of ancient pictures; but the Royal Academy had gradually encroached upon the building till it was allowed to occupy one-half of it, and that body, whose President was  ex officio hortus siccus, 501 The Times, Morning Post, Sun, Spectator, Examiner, Edinburgh Review, Tait's Blackwood's 502
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he should support the Amendment on the same grounds as his hon. Friend the Member for Hull (Mr. Clay).
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, that Sir C. Eastlake undertook the directorship of the National Gallery on the distinct understanding that he was to be responsible for all the pictures purchased. All the best opinions were with him on the subject of the management of the Gallery.
 MR. ALDERMAN CUBITT  said, that the Commissioners of Sewers for the City of London, in opposing this Bill in former stages, had been actuated solely by what they believed to be a public duty, but he was authorized by them to say, although they were not satisfied with the result, that they did not feel called upon to offer any further opposition.
 MR. DEEDES  said, the hon. Baronet had by his pleasantries drawn off the attention of the Committee from the real point before them. He (Mr. Deedes) did not stand up for the sobriety or the general appearance of the javelin-men, but if the Sheriff was to be attended, the question was by whom should it be, and who was to pay the Bill? In Hampshire, the Sheriff paid the magistrates a fixed sum each year for providing persons to keep order in court.[Sir JOHN SHELLEY: Hear, hear!] It seemed, then, that the hon. Baronet had no objection to that arrangement, and yet it was not in the spirit of the Bill, which was to reduce the Sheriffs' expenses, and it seemed that it was to the javelin-men that he objected. He (Mr. Deedes) had no objection to sec the Sheriffs' expenses reduced, but as the truth was that in almost every county a different custom prevailed in regard to the state kept up and the hospitality shown by the High Sheriff. The fact was that because some gentlemen took the duties of Sheriff  con amore,
 MR. MONSELL , the Chairman of the Committee appointed to try the Petition against the return of Mr. W. H. Leatham, for the Borough of Wakefield, appeared at the Bar with the Report:—
 MR. PARKER  said, he differed altogether from the promoters of this Bill as the result of its being passed into law would be to compel the police to neglect their ordinary duty or occasion a large increase in the force. He had received a letter from the head constable of Suffolk, objecting to the police under his employment being employed as guards for the Sheriff and Judges. It had been tried in that county, and the result was that the rural districts had been unscrupulously pillaged while the police were engaged at the assize town.
 MR. TITE  said, he could not conceive how any objection could be raised to so moderate an expenditure as that indicated by this Vote. Pictures were not exhibited solely for the amusement of the rich, but were of great value in improving the taste of the lower classes; and, speaking from an intimate acquaintance with those of foreign countries, in his opinion the National Gallery would bear comparison with some of the finest galleries in Europe. As to the expenditure for pictures, he would remind the House that the French Government had paid £20,000 for one picture. With regard to voting the £10,000 this year, we ought not to lose the opportunity of the sale of Lord Northwick's collection to add to the national collection. He thought it a pity to touch the £650 for travelling expenses at the present moment when the whole question was about to be considered. He thought that there should not be a regular travelling agent, but he was sure that there ought to be a person quietly to watch the foreign picture market, and the sum now proposed was moderate.
 Mr. W. WILLIAMS  said, he could not but express his regret that the hon. Gentleman had not moved the reduction of the Vote by a larger amount. It embraced, for instance, a sum of £10,000 for the purchase of pictures over and above a surplus of £8,098 which had been already voted, and which remained unexpended, and he was therefore strongly of opinion that that sum of £10,000 ought not to be asked for by the Government.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the reason why the hon. Baronet felt satisfied with the measure was clear—it was not one of reform at all. The Government ought not to proceed with it at this late period.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he attached no weight to the argument that the Treasury Minute of 1855, authorizing these grants of public money for five years, would expire next year, as the House was not bound by any Treasury Minute. He should therefore support the Motion of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire. He thought it would be better to place the whole responsibility for the purchase of pictures on the Government.
 SIR CHARLES BURRELL  said, he thought that the opportunity which offered itself for the addition of valuable pictures to the National Gallery ought not to be thrown away. He did not at all join in the condemnation which some hon. Members had thought fit to pass upon the pictures already in that collection, and as for what the newspapers said upon the subject he paid no attention to it, because they would always write in favour of or against anything if they were paid for it.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, he would not repeat the statement which he had made to the House the other night on the subject of Greenwich Hospital. He had brought forward this question for the last three or four years, and successive Boards of Admiralty had promised amendment, but he had always been deceived. The fact was that at present the officers in the hospital were treated in one way and the men in another, and he did not think the House should delay to do what was an act of simple justice. It had been proved that the Navy was an unpopular service, and no means ought to be left untried to remove such an impression. That being so, he should persist in the Motion of which he had given notice.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, the necessity of an inquiry was undisputed, and the only question was how it should be conducted. In his opinion it would be better to leave the question in the hands of the Admiralty, for if his noble Friend the Duke of Somerset undertook an inquiry, no man would carry it out more efficiently. He had some considerable suspicions as to inquiries by Commissions, and he was satisfied that if the House wanted the thing done well it was better to commit such inquiries to the Government. Let the Government be held responsible for the correction of these abuses, instead of transferring that responsibility to a Commission.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he had no doubt that many improvements might
 498
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  observed, that he should not object to the second reading being taken now, if it was for the public service.
 SIR JAMES DUKE  observed that nothing could be more lamentable than to see a feeble Government abandoning a good measure in order to please a section of its supporters. If the present Bill had been in the hands of hon. Gentlemen opposite, it would have been passed long ago. He hoped, notwithstanding the late period of the Session at which we had arrived, that the Bill would be proceeded with, though he was determined to oppose the clause which disfranchised the liverymen in regard to the election of Lord Mayor.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he did not think that in such a case the expense of a Commission ought to stand in the way of inquiry. The question had come before the Commissioners for Manning the Navy, who came to the conclusion that the question was so large a one, and the abuses were so many, that it was impossible for them to deal with them without travelling out of the proper limits of their authority. The Commissioners certainly expected that an inquiry would be made, and he thought that four or five naval officers could be assembled at small expense to give their opinion on the points at issue. The circumstance that the Government had recently come into office was no reason why a Commission should not issue.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, for the convenience of all parties interested, he must call upon the Government to state whether it was their intention to proceed with this measure or not. Considering the late period of the Session it would be quite impossible to pass the Bill.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  observed, that the only reasonable argument against their going into Committee on the Bill was the lateness of the Session, but even that did not apply, as the Bill was a remarkably short one. It only affected one portion of the Sheriff's retinue, the javelin-men, always a very useless, and often not a very sober body of men, and whose assistance in keeping order could advantageously be spared. It was absurd to say that the respect shown to the Judges was to be measured by the number of men in red coats, accompanied by trumpeters discoursing very ineloquent music, who escorted them into an assize town. All that idle paraphernalia was as much out of date as the Lord Mayor's Show, and the sooner it was swept away the better, I he Bill,
 491
 MR. CROSS  said, that as the subject of this measure was a very wide one, he would suggest to the hon. Member who had charge of the Bill that it should be withdrawn for the present, and re-introduced in the next Session, when the subject could be considered by a Select Committee. The Bill contained some excellent provisions, but there were an immense number of Acts of Parliament to be considered, and therefore it would not be expedient to proceed further at present.
 MR. STIRLING  said, he could not understand what connection there was between the item for travelling expenses and the subject to which hon. Members had just been referring. With respect to these expenses, he could only say that he believed the agreement which had been entered into with Sir C. Eastlake when he had accepted his present office was to the effect that when he was engaged in travelling for the purposes of the National Gallery his expenses should be allowed, and that the result of the success of the Motion of the hon. Member for Brighton would be to throw on the salary of Sir C. East-lake an expenditure which it was never intended it should bear. As to the speech by which that Motion was supported it was sufficient to remark that the hon. Member having made strong assertions seemed to imagine that he had proved his case. He condemned as unfortunate the purchases which had been made for the National Gallery, but something more than mere assertion was required to demonstrate the justice of that condemnation. The hon. Member had, indeed, published a pamphlet on the subject, but, so far as he (Mr. Stirling) could see, that pamphlet, as well as the speeches of the hon. Gentleman, was made up almost entirely of assertions. It was the opinion of the hon. Gentleman, for instance, that the pictures of the Spanish school, which had been purchased for the National Gallery, were altogether unworthy of that institution; but upon that point he begged leave to differ from the hon. Gentleman, and to express his belief that the few selections of those pictures made for the National Gallery were highly creditable to the taste of those by whom they were bought. As to the Holbein portrait, which seemed to constitute the greater portion of the hon. Gentleman's stock-in-trade, it ap-
 507
 LORD STANLEY  hoped, that the Government would take the question of the retention of Labuan into their consideration. He did not see what Imperial interests were served by the establishment; and in 1857 a promise was given that if Labuan did not pay its expenses, the question of its abandonment as a Government establishment was to be seriously considered. The local revenue had decreased by £1,090, and the net increase of the Vote was £2,842; and he did not hear that any success had attended the attempts to develope the natural resources of the island.
 MR. A. SMITH  called attention to an item in the Estimate of £500 for the salary of the consul at New York, and to another item of £500 pension to Mr. Barclay, late consul at New York, on account of the abolition of the office.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, that the bulky volume which the Committee on the consular service had published was a
 532
 MR. ELLICE (Coventry)  thought the Committee was indebted to the hon. Gentleman for the attention he paid to this subject, and thought that the continued increase of the estimate required vigilant supervision of the department. But, with regard to the embassy at Paris, it must be borne in mind that Paris was the centre of all our diplomatic affairs in Europe, and that this country had to maintain a certain importance and dignity there. The Paris embassy must either be maintained in equal importance with the embassies of the other States of Europe, or, if not, that House ought to relieve the poor nobleman or gentleman employed to transact diplomatic affairs in that capital from the enormous expense which was attached to his
 536
 MR. A. SMITH  objected to voting a larger sum than had been expended last year. He thought the hon. Member for Stafford had understated the aggregate of the diplomatic and consular expenditure. It was upwards of £660,000.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  replied that with respect to two Bills under his charge, namely, the Highways Bill and the London Corporation Bill, he had kept them on the Paper as long as he thought that there was any reasonable prospect that he might be able to proceed with them during the present Session. They had now reached the 28th of July. There was still the Income Tax Bill to be considered in Committee; the Committee of Supply had not closed; there was a Motion on Foreign Affairs still undebated; there was the Indian Budget unopened. With that amount of public business before the House, he did not feel justified in pressing the House to proceed with those Bills; and he would accordingly move that the orders of the day with regard to those Bills be discharged.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he thought it not desirable that the Amendment of the South Wales Act should be included in a general Bill for England; but if any special legislation for South Wales should be required, he would introduce a separate measure.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he should persevere with the Ecclesiastical Commission Bill; but he should not press the two first clauses, which were objected to on grounds that were likely to raise considerable discussion.
 MR. WHITESIDE : Sir, I am desirous, after what has been said, to make some observations on the interesting subject before the House. Within the last few days the Chancellor of the Exchequer delivered a speech, in which he explained the necessity under which he was placed of imposing great burdens on an over-taxed people. I admit that he gave ample rea-
 586
 MR. WHITESIDE : I did not say that you gave any opinion; but I say that the very fact of the Ministers of England ac-
 587 588 589 "Moreover, I added, my Lord, the fate of Italy is in the hands of England; you are, at present, the solo Power who has influence there; it is the greater because it is single. The easy overthrow of Louis Philippe, the establishment of a republic in France, have produced a real panic, but while admitting your power, which you certainly have no right to complain of our doing, allow me at the same time to assign to you the responsibility of events, at least as regards ourselves." "I feel no doubt of the sincerity with which this Government has submitted to the necessity created by various circumstances for the concessions it has made, and that it will faithfully perform its engagements to the best of its power. Count Harting will leave this the day after to-morrow for Italy, where he is going to endeavour to arrange matters amicably if possible. The Count is convinced, I think, of the propriety of aiming at the attainment of that political settlement which I mentioned in my despatch of the 2nd instant. I stated to him the grounds upon which I rest the opinion to which I allude, and the Count fully concurred with what I said. It is true that war has not been declared between the two States, and the mere withdrawal of the diplomatic agents from the two Courts does not necessarily imply its actual existence. What the Piedmontese have done is an intervention in the Austrian territories, for the purpose of giving support to rebels against the Austrian legal authority. It is in contradiction to the recognized principle of non-intervention, for there is no act even asserted by the Piedmontese to have been done by the Austrians injurious to any Piedmontese interests, or dangerous to the Sardinian King's rights or territories. Vague reports, circulated by the Sardinians themselves, of designs entertained by the Austrians to attack Piedmont, which reports have proved to be unfounded, are not justifications for real attacks upon a neighbour." 590 "At a late hour this afternoon I had the honour of a conversation with his Imperial Highness Archduke John, and I have only time to repeat to your Lordship very briefly the main points. His Imperial Highness said that the Lombards might have the absolute disposal of their own fate; they might take Charles Albert for their king, or any other person, or do what they liked as to their Government. I referred to a well-known phrase and said, 'Your Imperial Highness, then, will accept peace  quand même? "I neglected yesterday to say that, supposing Venice should again be under the Austrian Crown, that kingdom would enjoy a free constitution. According to Lord Ponsonby, therefore, Austria offered the independence of Lombardy and a free constitution for Venice. 591 "Lombardy would cease to belong to Austria, and would be free either to remain independent, or to unite herself to any other Italian State she might choose." 592 "Turin, July 10, 1849. "A few days ago I had an opportunity of conversing with a person who fully possesses the confidence of his Sardinian Majesty, and who has been of late in constant communication with him upon the subject of the war now carrying on in Lombardy. I took occasion, in the course of the conversation, to speak freely and openly on the subject of the present position of affairs, as connected with this war of Italian independence and the formation of the kingdom of Upper Italy. I remarked that it was our wish to see a strong and a united country established in Upper Italy, and that, in accordance with that principle, Her Majesty's Government had recently framed their answer to the proposals made by the Cabinet of Vienna with regard to the mediation of Great Britain; but I added that it appeared to me, as matters at present stood, that His Sardinian Majesty would do well calmly and scrupulously to consider His position in all its bearings and in all its relations, as they might affect the interests of
 593 This morning was communicated to me (Mr. Abercromby) a letter written entirely by His Sardinian Majesty. In that letter, dated Roverbella, 7th instant, His Sardinian Majesty declares that he would accept propositions which gave the Adige for the eastern frontier of this country, and which recognized the annexation to it of Lombardy and the Duchies of Parma and Modena. His Sardinian Majesty then proceeds to observe, that should the Austrian Government be disposed to make direct to him any propositions for peace based upon such territorial arrangements as above, or should they be proposed to him by Her Majesty's Government, as mediators, or should they be proposed through me at the recommendation of Her Majesty's Government, he would not hesitate to accept of them, and His Sardinian Majesty desires that those opinions should be confidentially communicated to me. His Sardinian Majesty terminated this letter which I have read by observing that sufficient reasons might be given to prove to the Chambers and to the country the wisdom of accepting a peace which, considering the relative powers of Sardinia and of Austria, ought justly to be considered as being both honourable and glorious for Sardinia." 594 "Foreign-office, July 28, 1848. "Sir,—I have to instruct you to send Lieutenant Campbell, or any other person competent to obtain information, to the army of King Charles Albert, to ascertain as far as he can, and to report upon, its present positions, operations, efficiency, numbers, and prospects. "You will obtain from the Government of Turin the necessary passport and permission for the person whom you may employ. That person will return to Turin after the execution of his commission. A messenger will be sent to you in a few days to enable you to send back his report to England. "I am, &c., (Signed) "PALMERSTON." "Foreign-office, August 5, 1848. "I had, a few days ago, a conversation with Count Revel on the affairs of Northern Italy, in which I told him that I had not then received any recent reports from the seat of war, but according to the last reports which had reached me, it did not appear that any essential advantage had been gained by either side; that Sardinia might possibly succeed in taking Mantua, but that she might find it a long and difficult task; that up to that time she had been successful, because the Austrians had continually acted on the defensive, but that the Austrian forces were always formidable, and reinforcements were then arriving and were expected to arrive. I also told Count Revel that Her Majesty's Minister at Turin had informed me that he had at one time had reason to believe that the Sardinian Government would have been disposed to negotiate on the basis of the line of the Adige, but that he had found that subsequent events had led them not to be willing to be satisfied with less than the line of the Piave, and I added that Sardinia was then certainly in a good position; and I expressed a wish that should the war continue she might prove victorious. I
 595 "It is impossible to say what has been the effect of that act [the refusal to accept the proposal of Austria], of the noble Viscount. My belief is that the insurrection of Hungary was the consequence, and what I regret as much as any man, the intervention of Russia, the interference of that country to crush the Hungarian insurrection having thus been rendered necessary." "Led the Italian Liberals to reject all terms of accommodation, and thus needlessly prolonged the war under circumstances evidently hopeless; it weakened the influence and damaged the character of England, by spreading the belief that she lacked the means, or wanted the courage, openly to support a cause which she had secretly promoted. Still more disastrous were the effects of this policy upon the general balance of power in Europe, for it led to the occupation of Rome by the French, and division of the Italian Peninsula, in respect of influence, between them and the Austrians, and by proving to Austria that she could not rely on the support of Great Britain, it threw her into the arms of Russia, induced the Muscovite intervention in Hungary, and brought about that vast in-
 596 "Nothing was ever more disastrous than this policy to Italy and the world. The general summary of Lord Palmerston's conduct during the whole of the critical period which followed the Italian revolution cannot be regarded by any impartial observer with approbation." Napoleon III. and Italy, "England decided in favour of the national element. France was isolated. Lord Minto fulfilled the mission with which he was charged by Lord Palmerston with an ardour which went beyond the mark, by exciting impatience and delusions where, above all, were necessary moderation and a spirit of firmness. Our influence was overthrown on the other side of the Alps. Italy no longer believed in France. It was England to whom Italy gave all her confidence. It must be admitted that this confidence was not deceived. England did not hesitate to declare against Austrian domination. Her policy is summed up in an important despatch of Lord Palmerston, dated the 29th of October, 1848." 597 "It would certainly be more prudent on the part of the Austrian Government to free the populations of Italy from what they will always consider a yoke, and Lord Palmerston thinks that yoke cannot he retained except by force, and that foreign aid will some day be implored and granted." "There was a moment of promise for Italian nationality. Austria proposed the independence of Lombardy, and a separate Government for Venetia, on the sole condition of her suzerainty. These proposals were carried directly to London. They were only known in France. It was then believed in London that Italy would obtain better terms, and the English Cabinet did not use its great and legitimate authority to prevent the refusal being made by the Provisional Government of Milan." 598 599 600 "Foreign Office, March 19. "My dear Marshal.—The Cabinet has just risen. We accept the Congress in a neutral town, but we prefer a Conference, it being understood that no question shall be raised respecting the territorial possessions of Austria in Italy, but that the discussions shall be confined to four points
 601 "Yours ever, "MALMESBURY." 602
 MR. WHITESIDE :—I said that it was transmitted by the noble Lord as the Austrian official proposal to his Ministers abroad, to Mr. Abercromby, for instance, at Turin, and I quoted from a despatch of Mr. Abercromby's giving the opinion of the King of Sardinia upon it.
 MR. WHITESIDE : I said it might renew the war.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMANS  said, there was a general understanding in the City that the statement respecting Indian finance was to be made on Monday next, and he trusted that it would not be postponed.
 MR. WHITESIDE , having moved that the House resolve itself into Committee.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  appealed to the hon. Member for Tavistock (Sir John Trelawny) not to proceed further with the Bill, it being now two o'clock.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  agreed to the Chairman reporting progress, on the understanding that no opposition would be offered to his proceeding with the Bill to-morrow.
 MR. KINNAIRD  accepted the correction. The temporal Government of the Pope. The noble Lord had alluded to the Holy Father. He did not explain the acts of the Holy Father at Perugia. He would
 628
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he had been alluded to as a representative of Exeter Hall; but he hoped that he should never shrink from expressing his opinions; and he asked the hon. Member for Dundalk whether he had not more respect for a man who candidly expressed his opinion than for those who concealed them? He was glad to hear that the hon. Member for Dungarvan (Mr. Maguire) had given up the infallibility of the Papal Government.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he had not heard the discussion which had taken place, but he was certainly very anxious to bring the subject of his Motion under the consideration of the House, and more particularly after what had taken place; for it seemed to him very desirable that there should be some expression of opinion as to the policy of joining in a Conference. He was very anxious England should keep aloof from any Congress; but of course as to the time of bringing this question forward, he was in the hands of the Government, and would submit it when it was most convenient to them to do so.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that as to the first question he had no option in the matter the law made the distinction complained of; but he had prepared a Bill which, if he were allowed to introduce it before the end of the Session, would, among other things, rectify the anomaly complained of. With respect to the second question, he could not see at present how the sons of Indian officers could be admitted to Sandhurst without that institution undergoing extension. The sons of Indian officers had the advantage of Addis-combe, which, he apprehended, answered the same purpose.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, the Government had authorized experiments to be made by Sir W. Armstrong in rifling the ordinary iron guns, and one gun would be tried next week. Similar orders would be given at the factory at Woolwich, and he hoped soon to see from fifteen to sixteen iron rifled guns produced per week.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  replied that experiments were now in progress, under the superintendence of the Board of Trade, and under the control of those eminent engineers Mr. Stephenson arid Sir Charles Bright, with the view of testing the composition of the outer coverings of Telegraphic Cables.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would excuse him if he reverted again to the charge which the right hon. Gentleman made against his right hon. and learned Friend the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Whiteside), of making a charge without any foundation against the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton. He wished to show the Chancellor of the Exchequer that if he had read the blue-book a little more attentively he would have found that it completely substantiated the charge. Now, the charge was that the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, in May, 1848, when he was Foreign Minister, had an opportunity of securing for Lombardy her own independence, either separately, or in alliance with Piedmont, as she thought fit, but that he would not accept that proposition, and that the consequence was a bloody war of three or four months, which ended in Lombardy getting less favourable terms than she would otherwise have obtained. The noble Lord was for driving Austria completely out of Lombardy, and he never availed himself of the clever expedients and suggestions which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had mentioned. ["Read."] Well, on the 3d of June, 1848, the noble Lord wrote saying that Her Majesty's Government would be unwilling to enter into any negotiation which in their opinion afforded no prospect of success. The noble Lord added that the Government would not withhold their assent from an arrangement which, being framed on the principle stated in the memorandum of Baron Hummelauer, of the 24th of May, in reference to Lombardy, should also include such a portion of the Venetian territory as should be agreed upon between the respective par-
 623
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : My noble Friend who has just spoken seems to think he has diminished the force of the argument of my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but the fact is that what my right hon. Friend urged remains just in the same position as it stood before. The proposition of the Austrian Government was stated on the 23 rd of May. The proposition of Baron Hummelauer was stated on the 24th of May; and at a subsequent date, according to the document which the noble Lord has read, my noble Friend refers to that memorandum as Baron Hummelauer's memorandum. That is in exact conformity and strict consistency with what my right hon. Friend has said. The noble Lord does not see that the first question is, what was the proposition that was made? Was it the proposition of the Austrian Government, or was it a proposition of Baron Hummelauer which he had taken upon him to make? There can be no doubt that it was the proposition of Baron Hummelauer, made here in London to the British Government. But it is quite another question whether or not Her Majesty's Government of that day ought at once to have accepted that proposition. We had nothing to do with the contest then going on. The people of Venice had risen
 624 625
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : But the hon. Gentleman must be aware that in Rome and the Papal States, foreign troops have been used for the purpose of keeping the people in a state of political bondage. What is happening at the present moment? The military pressure having been removed, the people are forming Governments for themselves. They would have done so ten years ago, if it had not been for the Austrian troops garrisoned in their towns. But the hon. and learned Member for Dublin University has said, that if my advice were taken it would renew the war.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : It might; but does the hon. and learned Gentleman consider what is the present state of some of those countries which are affected by the treaty? My opinion, stated at the beginning of last Session, stated frequently since, and as often by my noble Friend as myself, is, that the people of Italy ought to be left to form governments for themselves. I am, for my own part, willing, if that were done, to give them no advice whatever, but to leave them to act just as they please. They might fall into errors; in some instances, perhaps, there might be popular outrages; but I believe, that if the people of Italy were left to themselves, they would, in no very long time, form sound popular institutions, and order would be as easily kept there as in any of the other civilized countries of Europe. I do not wish to give advice, but when we find foreign Governments interfering, when we hear it said on the one side, that if the foreign troops were withdrawn, there would be universal massacre and pillage, it is perfectly fair that we should give advice on the other. In my opinion, a renewal of the war is more likely to proceed from the marching of foreign troops into Bologna and Florence than from allowing the people to follow their own views and to carry into effect institutions of their own selection. I believe the hon. and learned Gentleman must himself be of opinion that the Italian people would be better able to form good governments for themselves than either France or Austria. Let me observe, before I sit down, that for ten years past people have been saying, that if the foreign
 627
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : What the noble Lord says is quite true; but I believe when Lombardy fell into the possession of Austria there was no chance of Venice being able to withstand the Austrian army.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, in rising to make the statement of which I promised on the state of our Foreign Affairs—a course which I took in preference to answering the various questions which from day to day have arisen—I must say that I could have wished to postpone that statement, and I certainly should have done so, had we not arrived at such an advanced period of the Session. Indeed, even at this advanced period of the Session, I would have postponed my statement had I expected that before Parliament rose there was a prospect that some definitive settlement might be agreed upon, either by other Powers seperately or in concurrence with Great Britain, and which I should be able to announce to the House. But in the present state of circumstances I do not think it would be right to withhold from Parliament a statement as to the position of foreign affairs. And in beginning that statement, I may remark that I am glad to find that in the  Moniteur 544 545 546 "A French and Austrian Plenipotentiary are about to meet immediately at Zurich, to convert into a treaty of peace the bases decided upon between their Majesties. You are aware, by my former correspondence, that the Government has always desired to see the great Powers concur for the definitive settlement of the affairs of Italy. His Majesty's intentions have not altered in this respect, and we hope that the Powers will be able to meet, either in a Congress or in a Conference, to confer on all the questions raised by the actual state of thing's in Italy, and which are connected with general interests." 547 "To confer on all the questions raised by the actual state of things in Italy, and which are connected with general interests." "I need not add that the very nature of the new relations to be created in Italy will imply a preliminary understanding between the different States of the Peninsula, who will necessarily be called upon to assemble in order to deliberate upon the bases of the Confederation whose establishment the two Sovereigns have mutually agreed to further." 548 549 concordat 550 551 552 553 554 555
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I did not say that the Bolognese wished to be annexed to Piedmont.
 LORD LOVAINE  reminded the noble Lord that when our Government submitted its proposition for a peace in 1848 the town of Venice was still in open rebellion, and seemed likely to maintain its independence for a long time. Yet at that moment the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton proposed to give up, not only Venetia, but the city of Venice to Austria.
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  did not exactly understand the value of consuls, for he recollected that the consul at Marseilles was unaware of any "extraordinary preparations" just before the Emperor Napoleon forwarded 70,000 men from that port to Genoa. If he had merely used his eyes he must have seen some unusual bustle. Lately, too, when the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs inquired respecting preparations alleged to be mailing at Brest, the consul at that port was found amusing himself elsewhere.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, there was one portion of the noble Lord's address which appeared to me to be veiled in much more obscurity than the House will be disposed to desire—I allude to where he spoke of terms offered or supposed to be offered to the Emperor of Austria by his allies, and which in the opinion of that Sovereign were much more severe than those which were extended to him by his opponent. Now it would, I think, be desirable that the noble Lord, having touched upon that subject, should have given the House, with respect to it, more information than I for one had been able to gather from his observations. The position of affairs is so critical; so much depends upon the conduct of the Government of this country at the present moment and the influence of Parliament, owing to the period of the year when our attention has been drawn to these important matters, is necessarily so limited, that I shall offer no apology to the House for following the noble Lord through some of his remarks. 556 557 558 sine quâ non. 559 560 561 562 563 564 565 566
 MR. DISRAELI  said, it would be convenient to the House to know what was the probable course of public business. He understood that on Monday the noble Lord opposite (Lord Elcho) would bring forward his Motion on the subject of Italy, which had been the subject of the debate so unexpectedly raised that night. A Notice had also been given for Monday night with regard to the Indian budget. He thought the subject of Italy had not been sufficiently discussed, and that the opinion of the House should be taken on it and, if so, delay could not be too much deprecated. Of course, much would depend on the opinion of the noble Lord at the head of the Government. If there was to be a discussion on the probable Congress on the affairs of Italy he thought it ought to be brought forward on Monday; and in that case the Indian budget might be postponed. He thought the House should know what the noble Lord at the head of the Government proposed on the subject.
 MR. DISRAELI  was afraid that he had not made his meaning sufficiently clear. Of course it was in the power of the Government to adhere to that arrangement; but he thought he did not misinterpret the opinion of the House when he said that a discussion ought to take place on the Mo-
 629
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that the number of Commissioners might be reduced. The Colonies complained of the manner in which the business of the Emigration Board was conducted, and were establishing offices of their own in England. The matter was one for the Colonies more than for this country; the Colonies were the parties interested in the emigration of persons from this country. The number of emigrants now sent out by the Commissioners were very few. He had no objection to the part of the Vote which was for the payment of the officers at ports, who discharged very
 530
 MR. ADDERLEY  asked how much had been raised in the colony by customs, land sales, and mining leases. In his opinion the colony ought very soon to be able to defray its expenses out of these revenues. The colony of Canterbury, New Zealand, of which he had been one of the founders, had never cost the country one shilling, and he saw no reason why British Columbia might not be established on the same principle. Next year he should certainly ask the House not to allow this Vote.
 MR. ADDERLEY  asked whether the amount of the Vote was an increasing one or not?
 MR. ADDERLEY  wanted a distinct answer whether the intentions of the present Government were, as those of the late Government had been, to make the colony reimburse this expenditure out of the growing revenue.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, the principle proposed by the late Government in establishing this colony was that it should be self-supporting, and he quoted a passage from a despatch of the late Secretary of State (Sir E. B. Lytton), in which he expressed a hope that the colony of British Columbia would soon be self-supporting, and that the expense of sending out the engineers would be reimbursed from the first balance in the colonial revenue.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  asked, whether the Government had turned their attention to the possibility of finding a new sphere in which convicts discharged from prison might recover a position in society? The ticket-of-leave system had failed; and he was convinced that a sphere for the recovery of those persons was not to be found under our present system. The law when it condemned a man to penal servitude did not intend to affix on him a punishment which should pursue him during his whole future career; yet that was the effect of the existing system, for it affixed a stigma from which few recovered in this country. Was it not possible to employ the convicts upon public works in the Colonies, and then to find a sphere for them in the Colonies after their sentence had expired? That system had been successfully carried out
 526
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the noble Lord who preceded him in office had some time ago laid down the rule limiting the
 540
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that he had received no communication from the Government of India, or from the Government of Bombay on the subject, and was not aware whether it was their intention to recommend that Batta should be granted.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  believed that great anxiety prevailed in the House and in the city with regard to the Indian budget, and that much disappointment would be occasioned if it were not brought forward, according to arrangement, next Monday.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  agreed in the sentiments expressed on both sides of the House with respect to the admirable character of Sir James Brooke, who had no doubt established the British name and fame in those remote seas. He trusted that the hon. Member for Lambeth would not divide the Committee on his Motion. The question was, on a former occasion, brought under the consideration of the right hon. Member for Taunton (Mr. Labouchere) whether this Vote should be continued on the Estimates much longer, and the present Secretary for the Colonies felt it was a question deserving most serious consideration. He agreed with the noble Lord (Lord Stanley) that in a pecuniary sense the colony had been a failure, and it was necessary to consider whether any imperial interests would be served by retaining it.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, with regard to the Motion of the hon. Member for Lambeth, that he thought the hon. Member had been rather unfortunate in choosing this particular Governor as a victim, because the colony of Western Australia performed very important functions towards the mother country. He was not prepared to give an answer to the great and serious question raised by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire. He could only say that the Colonial Office would not undertake to make the mischievous attempt of forcing convicts upon colonies which had expressed most unmistakeably their feeling against receiving them. No doubt, the hon. Member alluded to the establishment of a new
 527
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, it was not the intention of the Government to fill up the vacancies in the places of the present magistrates when they should become vacant.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that the bulk of the items in this Vote, no less than £37,000, arose from a detachment of Royal Engineers having been sent out to the colony. The Hudson's Bay Company had ceased to have anything to do with the colony, and with Vancouver's Island.
 Mr. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, it was no use promising impossibili-
 525
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, the Vote was gradually dying out, having materially diminished within the last few years.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  had not expected criticism from the right
 523
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, his own impression was that there had been an absence of frankness on the part of Mr. Sewell; but there had not been such a suppression of facts as could have affected the decision of the Committee or the action of Parliament
 MR. BENTINCK  thought an unfair construction might be put on the recent correspondence respecting Examinations, in consequence of the observations of the hon. Member for Stafford (Mr. Wise). All that was to be inferred from that correspondence was that a young man of great abilities and of mental aptitude for a post ought not to be disqualified simply on the ground that he could not write a clerklike hand. He quite agreed with the right hon. Member for Coventry in respect to the Embassy at Paris. A large expenditure was essential there for the credit of the country; but he thought the Committee were indebted to the hon. Member for Stafford for his remarks, because there was a strange tendency in that assembly to be stingy and close-fisted in matters of the utmost importance, and unduly liberal in other matters.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he must beg to remind the noble Lord that every attempt on the part of this country to interfere in the affairs of Italy had not only ended in failure, but had exposed this country to insults from the Powers immediately connected with its affairs. In 1848 we encouraged revolutions in every part of Italy. We encouraged a revolution in Florence, which was put down by the Austrian Government. The result was, that English subjects were insulted in the streets of Florence by Austrian soldiers; an Englishman was cut down there by them; and it became difficult for any English subject to travel in any part of the Austrian dominions. That was the result of our inter-
 581 582 congés. congés congés congés
 MR. H. BRUCE .—The latter part of my question remains unanswered.
 MR. H. BRUCE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether he intends to proceed with the Highways Bill this Session; also whether he purposes to introduce a Bill, either during this or the next Session, to amend the South Wales Highway Act?
 MR. DRUMMOND : I do not rise to prolong this debate by any opinions of my own, or by reinforcing the arguments which have been used by others. But I think that scrimp justice has been done to the kingdom of Sardinia, and I think that this debate has not gone to the root of the question; and I wish, therefore, to refer to a few facts to enable this House to come to a right conclusion. It is very well known that Sardinia is the only country which has attained constitutional government without either revolution or carnage; and I think that such a country ought in this House—where we profess to be such admirers of constitutional government, and where we know something of the failures which have attended the attempts to attain it in France and Hungary and other places—we ought to have some leanings towards the side of Sardinia, and not show so much anxiety to find fault with the conduct of statesmen who are unused to the difficulties of the position they hold. It is essential to the establishment of freedom that the ecclesiastical power should be subjected to the civil. Without that it is a delusion to talk of liberty—liberty is a sham. You can have no liberty while you are the slaves of the priest. There are those in this House who remember, as I do, the return of Louis XVIII. to France, where he found a priest who had been convicted of the crime of cutting his mistress into twenty pieces. [ A laugh. 603 604 Univers 605 606
 MR. PEASE  said, a great many intelligent men in the kingdom felt that any facilities afforded by the possession of this island were not worth having at the price given for them.
 MR. SPEAKER  informed the House that certain petitioners who had complained of undue Elections and Returns for Kidderminster, Kingston upon Hull, and New Windsor had signified their intention not to proceed with their respective Petitions.
 MR. DODSON  thought it would be unwise to withhold this sum, which was necessary for the establishment of an organized Government in a new colony.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he had spoken of the temporal Government of the Pope.
 MR. MAGUIRE : * 616 617 618 619 620 621 622
 MR. MAGUIRE : I never said any such
 626
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he had been informed by the noble Lord (Lord Elcho) that it was his intention to bring forward his Motion on going into Committee of Supply. The Motion for Supply must be made on the question of Indian finance, and therefore Lord Elcho could bring forward his Motion in spite of the Government.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  drew the attention of the House to some circumstances connected with the guarantee given two years ago to an advance of £500,000 to the colony of New Zealand, upon what he believed to be incorrect evidence on the part of Mr. Sewell. A letter had been received, signed by several members of the Legislature and the Speaker, pointing out the inaccuracies to which he had alluded.
 MR. WISE  said, that was precisely the reason of the item to which the hon. Member objected. A number of young gentlemen had been sent out to those countries as Interpreters to be trained up for the consular service.
 MR. WISE  called attention to the great increase which had taken place in this Vote during the last few years. During a very short period the Vote had increased from £16,000 to £40,000 a year. However, the amount voted had not been required, the sums actually spent being in 1856 £27,482; in 1857 £30,732, and in 1856 £30,734. That being so, it appeared to him to be unnecessary year after year to take a Vote for some £10,000 more than was required. He would be glad to know if these unexpended balances were in the Exchequer or to the credit of the Government. These diplomatic expenses had increased most enormously of late years. Since the year 1840 no less a sum than £6,477,000 had been voted on account of these services. He wished to invite the attention of the Secretary of the Treasury to this subject, and he trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would urge upon the Foreign Office the necessity of more economical arrangements. In 1853 he stated before a Select Committee that if care were not taken these diplomatic services before many years would amount to half-a-million annually. He regretted to inform the Committee that his fears had been more than realized, for the Estimate for the present year was £521,665. He should state to the Committee what the items of expenditure on this account for the present year were: in addition to £82,000 for the Foreign Office, and £40,000 for secret services, he found the following sums voted, namely, for consular service and pensions, £242,796; for diplomatic salaries and pensions, £183,936; for special missions, £41,497; outfits, £18,025; extraordinary disbursements, £40,000; repairs of three embassy houses, £5,390; British consulate at Constantinople, £10,000; making in all a sum of £521,665. The manner in which these Estimates were prepared was somewhat extraordinary, and seemed specially framed not to give clear information. For instance, they found a sum of £12,000 was the estimate for the embassy at Paris; but hon. Members were not to suppose that was the whole of the expenditure for that embassy. They would find items relating to that establishment running through other Estimates; such as a charge of £1,140 for keeping up the Embassy House, and £3,817 for extraordinary charges, including one item of £1,000
 535 attachés,
 MR. HASSARD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War if it is his intention to permit officers of the Indian Army to act as Adjutants of English and Scotch Militia Regiments, they being eligible now to act as Adjutants of Irish Militia Regiments; and whether, as the Army of India has now been brought under the immediate administration of the Crown, it is his intention to permit officers of the Indian Army to send their sons to Woolwich and Sandhurst upon the same terms as to payment as those upon which officers of Her Majesty's other forces are permitted to send their sons to those establishments?
 MR. BLACKBURN  feared that a new colony nearer home than the Feejee Islands would become a charge upon this country next year if the Government did not take care. Efforts were being made to refuse a renewal of the licence of the Hudson's Bay Company, and thus transfer a country which, if it produced nothing to us, at least cost us nothing, to the charge of the Imperial Exchequer.
 MR. BLACKBURN  thought the Committee were bound to agree to the Vote, as the colony was established with the consent of Parliament, and after a short statement as to the probable expenditure which its establishment would devolve on this country; but he hoped that the case of New Columbia would not be taken as a precedent for, but as a warning against similar expenses in favour of all new colonies.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, that it appeared to him to be perfectly useless to found penal establishments at the other end of the world which should be nothing more than convict prisons. The convicts ought ultimately to be fused with the population. He thought the House would display little gratitude to Western Australia by refusing the present grant. If the employment by that colony of convicts in hard labour was found profitable, other colonies would be induced to reconsider the determination they had come to of refusing convicts.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  differed in opinion from the noble Lord, and concurred with the large body of commercial men who had by memorials and other means expressed their opinion of the utility not only of this colony, but of Sarawak; believing that an establishment of English power in that part of the world would in future be most important. He thought that the great and illustrious man who had established the colony, and who was now in this country stricken down by ill health, deserved some other reward than the disregarded language which had been used
 529
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, that the Committee which sat last Session to investigate this subject might have continued their labours with advantage. It appeared by this Estimate no change was made on the old system, except by additional expenditure, and he did not wish that that should be the only notice taken of the labours of the Committee. He did not believe that if the recommendations of the Committee had been acted upon any great additional expenditure would have been incurred by the country and the service would have been put on a greatly improved footing. He thought there should be but two classes of consular agents. One class should consist of trained gentlemen who had full knowledge of the requirements of commerce and of mercantile law amply remunerated, who should fill the office of consul at the chief port of each country; and the other should consist of respectable British merchants at the various minor ports, whose zeal should be stimulated by the prospect of honorary distinctions at the disposal of the Sovereign. The consular office should have a distinct and definite character, and should not be given to any accidental friend of the Foreign Office. At present the unsatisfactory position of needy men representing British interests was equally unjust to them and injurious to our national character. The recommendations of the Committee related both to the payment of consuls and the
 531
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  wished to draw the attention of the Committee to the case of Marseilles. When Mr. Turnbull was appointed consul at that port in 1816 he received fees. In 1826 he was placed upon a salary of £800 and forbidden to trade. In 1832 his salary was reduced to £600 and permission to engage in trade restored; which was, however, of no use to a man whose connection with mercantile affairs had ceased six or seven years before. In 1835 the salary was further reduced to £550. He hoped the hon. Member for Lambeth would not run a muck against salaries without reference to other circumstances.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  thought it was important that the House should, especially at the present time, have an opportunity of distinctly expressing its opinion with respect to the great drama which had recently taken place on the Continent. It appeared to him that the late Chancellor of the Exchequer (Mr. Disraeli), who was a member of the Government which sent Lord Cowley to Vienna to transmit messages to the Emperor of the French, and not the opinions of his own Government, should be the last man to find fault with the present
 583 584 585
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury to state under what head in the Estimates provision is proposed to be made for the sum of £13,247 7 s. d., 541 Newport v.
 MR. LAING  said, the charge to which the hon. Gentleman referred was not included in the Estimates; but would be defrayed from that branch of the hereditary revenues of the Crown, which consisted of Maritime Droits and the receipts from Intestates' Estates.
 MR LAING  said, it could not be expected at that time to go into the general question connected with the consular system. A paper relative to the mode in which it was proposed to carry out the recommendations of the Committee would shortly be laid on the table, and the matter could then he fully discussed. This
 533
 MR. LAING  said, the matter belonged to the Foreign Office, and he could not explain the apparent contradiction at present.
 MR. LAING  said, that with respect to this particular Estimate of £40,000, the actual expenditure was always a year in arrear of the estimated expenditure, and it did not appear to be the case that, though £40,000 were voted, the whole sum was expended. The total amount of the expenditure in 1857–58 was only £30,734. That was a proof that on the part of the Foreign Office there was no reckless disposition to throw away the public money, merely because it had been voted. There could be no doubt, however, that the full amount of the present Vote would be required, as increased activity of diplomatic intercourse, and the multiplicity of telegraph messages, arising out of the affairs on the Continent, had caused great ex-
 537
 MR. LAING  said, it would be quite necessary to take a Vote for £40,000; he understood that the whole would be expended.
 MR. LAING  said, that the Government were not insensible to the importance of keeping down the retired list, and when the Irish revenue police was abolished every available man belonging to it was employed in the constabulary.
 MR. LAING  remarked that the present Government had shown a disposition to introduce economy in respect to this colony, as upon taking office they found pending a contract for a mail service and the establishment of a mint, questions which they had disposed of for the present.
 MR. WALPOLE  thought that, considering the circumstances under which the colony was established, considering the necessity for establishing it, and considering that his right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Colonies under the late Govern-
 524
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  was much surprised to hear the hon. Gentleman speak of so remarkable and distinguished a man as Sir James Brooke, as "a person named Brooke," and he was sure that the hon. Member would, on reflection, be sorry that he had spoken of him in such a disparaging way. He knew nothing personally of Sir James Brooke; but he believed that the motives which originally induced him to take possession of Labuan were of the highest and purest character, and that he was principally influenced by a desire to spread the blessings of Christianity. He thought the hon, Member should not bring forward a question of this character in this incidental way, and he would advise the hon. Member to follow the example of the late Mr. Hume, and give the House an opportunity of dealing specifically with the question.
 MR. HANKEY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for India, whether the recent regulation with respect to candidates for admission to the Civil Service in India, limiting the ages for final examination to twenty two years, is intended to be applied rigidly, so as to exclude any Native of India who may have come to England expressly as a candidate for the Civil Service when the former limit of age was twenty-three, and who may be precluded by this new regulation from now entering the service of the Queen in India?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I agree with my hon. Friend who hast just sat down, that it is impossible to hope that the present debate, which has arisen incidentally upon a statement made by my noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) can exhaust all those subjects of varied interest which it naturally suggests; but I am glad that my hon. Friend has borne his testimony upon a subject which, after the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Dundalk (Mr. Bowyer), really needed it. I mean that he has reminded the House how much, in one sense at least, we owe to Sardinia. I do not now speak of the foreign policy of Sardinia; but I do say that with respect to the whole of her internal government, my hon. Friend has not said a word too much. She has been placed in a position of enormous difficulty. She has had upon the one hand the principle of absolutism, and upon the other, the principle of revolution; she has had upon the one hand, in matters ecclesiastical, the principle of the absolute dominion of the Pope; she has had, on the other, the principle of irreligion; and between these opposing evils, she has steered her course with a sagacity and a success that establishes for her a claim upon the gratitude of every lover of order and freedom in the world. I rise, however, chiefly for the purpose of following the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Whiteside), because he founded his imputations or his unfavourable presumptions against the conduct which the present Government is likely to pursue at this juncture upon historical references. Not for the first, nor, I think, for the second time, the right hon. Gentleman went back to the history of the year 1848. He went into many particulars, referred to dates, quoted documents, and dwelt at great length upon his case; and, as I thought, he appeared to prove it to the entire satisfaction of those who sit behind him. The cheers which greeted him were, I think, ample demonstration of that fact. I am very sorry that the right hon. Gentleman is not in his place. If he had been there it would have been my first duty to assure him that in what I am about to say I do not in the slightest degree intend to question anything except his accuracy. I shall go over the charges which he has made against my noble Friend at the head of the
 607 608 609 610 "If the Council (meaning the Cabinet) gives its approbation to the ideas in question (meaning those contained in the enclosure), I will immediately return to Vienna and urge the expediency of their being adopted by my Government."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER :—I do not want to do the right hon. Gentleman any injustice. If it was transmitted abroad as an official offer of the Austrian Government, I acknowledge that it was a gross error; but I am authorized by my noble Friend to assure the right hon. Gentleman that he is entirely mistaken, and that it was sent to Turin merely as a paper embodying the opinions of Baron Hammelauer. The right hon. Gentleman says it was accepted by the Sardinian Government. My noble Friend had to deal with this scheme on the 24th of May; and what were the declarations of the Sardinian Government at that date? On the 24th of May Her Majesty's Government received two letters from Mr. Abercromby, one of the 18th and the other of the 19th, both of them declaring the views of the Sardinian Government. The first
 611 612 613 614 615
 MR. VANSITTART  said, that, as the petition which had just been withdrawn was presented against his hon. Colleague and himself, he hoped the House would allow him to make a few observations. He begged to enter his indignant protest against the present system of election petitions, and against the manner in which petitions were promoted, presented, and withdrawn. He thought it was high time that the House should devise some means by which to ascertain those which were  bonâ fide, 539 nisiprius
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  objected. This place, if supported at all, ought to be supported by the Indian Government. It had been originally taken possession of by a personnamed Brooke, who kept it as long as it suited his purpose, and then handed it over to the Government. The occupation of this place had been totally unprofitable to this country, and he should move that the whole of the Vote be disallowed.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  did not suppose that the colony received convicts to benefit this country, but simply to benefit itself. He would, however, trusting that the matter would be taken into consideration by the Government, withdraw his Motion.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  observed that these magistrates were first established during the apprenticeship system in the West Indies, and that system had now been abolished for twenty-two years.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that the consular system required revision, for he was of opinion that many of these officers were utterly useless. He entirely disagreed from the propriety of increasing this Vote by £6,370 for increased consular salaries. The first of these fortunate officials was the consul at Marseilles, whose salary was increased from £550 to £900 a year. He would like to know what increase of trade we had with Marseilles to warrant such an increase. He also found that this gentleman was entitled to certain fees which amounted to a large annual sum. The salary of the consul at Barcelona was proposed to be increased from £400 to £550 a year. It was absurd to say there was any trade with Barcelona sufficient to justify such an increase. At Alexandria the consul's salary was proposed to be increased from £600 to £1,000 a year. He was able to congratulate the Committee on one item removed from these Estimates, to which he had called attention for the last three years. He alluded to the salary of £400 a year for a consul at Cincinnati. When he found that the salaries of the consuls at New York and Boston, where there was a large trade, were still left at £500 and £200 a year respectively, he could not believe that the increase in the salaries of the other consuls arose from any other motive than favour; and he therefore moved the reduction of the Vote by a sum of £6,375.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he had been guilty of no disrespect to Sir James Brooke. He had called him Brooke, and the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Sotheron Estcourt) had called him Sir James Brooke. That was all the difference between them. He wished also to be informed what Sir James Brooke had done for Christianity in Labuan.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that when the reduction of one public office took place the
 538
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that the large expenditure incurred by the Ambassador at Paris arose from his being called on to entertain all the aristocracy of this country when they visited Paris; but why should the working men of this country be called on to pay for that? In addition to the regular allowance for the French Embassy of £10,000, there were extra expenses of £3,819, including an item of £1,000"miscellaneous."What did that mean? Under the head of Prussia he found an extra charge of £667  for fetes
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said he should persist in his amendment.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he would have divided, only that he was afraid he should not have found another teller.
 MR. WILLIAMS  said, that this place had been a British possession for a long time, though not recognized as a colony. With its resources it ought to yield a revenue sufficient to meet the expenditure. California has received no assistance from the United States' Treasury.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  expressed his astonishment at the magnitude of this Vote, and deprecated the constant accession of new colonies. Very lately he had seen a report of a deputation which waited on her Majesty's Government for the purpose of recommending the annexation of the Feejee Islands. Every one of these new accessions increased the burden on the taxpayers of this country, and he thought some stop should be put to the system. In the present case this was part of an old colony, and £42,000 seemed to him to be a monstrous sum to start with.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  did not understand why the people of this country should be taxed to pay these Governors. At all events, the Governor of Western Australia had no business whatever in the Estimate, for the present condition of that colony was prosperous. He, therefore, moved that the Vote he diminished by £1,800, the amount of the salary of the Governor of Western Australia.
 Mr. W. WILLIAMS  objected, on the ground that land had been granted for these establishments, which, therefore, ought to maintain themselves without coming upon this country. One of the items was for the Roman Catholic Bishop of Newfoundland, whose salary he found had been increased from £100 to £500 a year.
 MR. BOWYER : Though the noble Lord might not have said it, he implied it. What other did the noble Lord mean? He could not have meant that they wished to set up for themselves, and he was too frank to deny that his own wish was that they should unite themselves with Sardinia. The Sardinian Government sent Massimo d' Azeglio to the States of the Pope, and, without having the slightest desire to say a word against that statesman, he could not help thinking that it would have been better for his character in Europe had he kept away altogether from Bologna. He was sent as the Sardinian Commissioner to Bologna to foment the revolution, to take the command of the troops, to levy armaments, and, no doubt, to do all in his power to lead to the union of some part of that territory to Piedmont. That was a proceeding entirely incompatible with the commonest ideas of international law. The noble Lord spoke of these things with some degree of satisfaction. He eulogized the character of Massimo d'Azeglio, and talked of the ovation with which he was received. He (Mr. Bowyer) would like to know all about that ovation—how it was got up—mobs were easily got up and excited, and then it was casy to call it an ovation. In his famous Prussian despatch the noble Lord said that the future government of Italy must depend on the will of the people. That might be very fine language for Brookes's; but the noble Lord who had
 570 571 De jure Legatorum. 572
 MR. BOWYER  said, they had heard an extraordinary speech from the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. The noble Lord had informed them that the Government had been invited to join in a Conference to settle the affairs that remained to be settled in consequence of late events; and yet he did not think the wit of man could have invented a speech
 567 568 569
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for War whether any steps are being taken, and what, for the rifling of the smooth-bored iron cannon in store for the supply of the Army, Navy, and Forts in the interval that
 542
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  alluded to the atrocities practised upon emigrants on board ship. He was one who did not think emigration necessary. Instead of sending our people away, we ought to endeavour to keep them at home; we had not too many; we wanted more.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  thought that Rupert's Land would be glad to receive convicts of good character. [ Laughter.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, the whole system required revision. A Secretary to the Treasury after five years' service was entitled to an income for the rest of his life of £1,200 a year. There was nothing like it in any other country.
 MR. ENNIS  said, there was one item in this Vote of £7,800 for Interpreters in China. He thought the consuls ought themselves to be able to speak the language of the country they were in.
 MR. CAVE  said, that with regard to the West Indian colonies these Votes were only votes in aid, and that the colonists themselves paid a portion of the expenses. The whole subject of the government of the West Indian Islands was in a most unsatisfactory state. The salaries awarded to the governors of the smaller islands were generally very inadequate. He conceived that by forming them into groups, and having one establishment for each group, the Government would be carried on more efficiently and more economically; and in a few years the West Indies would not require the aid now given them for the payment of a portion of the salaries of their Governors.
 MR. ADAM  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India if the usual Grant of Batta has been made to the troops employed in the Persian War; and, if not, what steps Goverment has taken, or intends to take, in the matter.
 SIR WILLIAM GALLWEY  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty whether any and what experiments are proposed to be made as to laying Telegraphic Cables in deep water, before risking the sum voted for a Cable to Gibraltar?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I refrained from answering at once the ques-
 573 574 575 amour propre 576 577 578 579 580
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I distinctly stated that we gave no opinion and no advice; and therefore we did not assent to the terms of any paper.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  could not, of course, answer for his noble Friend (Lord Elcho), who was not now in his place; but the Government proposed to take the Income-tax Bill in Committee to-morrow, and the Secretary of State for India hoped that the noble Lord would not stand in his way on Monday. ["Oh!"] The Orders of the Day had precedence on Monday, and it was very important that the Indian financial statement should be made at once.
 MR. PIGOTT  said, he had given notice of an Amendment to reduce the amount of increase in the tax from 4 d. d. "The general views of Her Majesty's Government with respect to the income tax are that it is an engine of gigantic power for great national purposes; but, at the same time, there are circumstances attending its operation which make it difficult, and perhaps impossible—at any rate, in our opinion, not desirable to maintain it as a portion of the permanent and ordinary finances of the country. The public feeling of its inequality is a fact most important in itself. The inquisition it
 639 quasi
 MR. HENLEY  said, one provision of the Bill would act very hard on the class
 643
 MR. HENLEY  said, that in order to record his opinion upon the point he had raised, he would move as an Amendment that after the word "respectively" in the first clause the words "except schedule B" be added. He should not divide upon it, as he knew the Government would carry their view.
 MR. PIGOTT  said, he quite agreed with the hon. Baronet that the pressure imposed by the Bill upon the annuitant would be unfair.
 MR. RIDLEY  said, he thought that it might properly be a subject for inquiry by the Lunacy Commission whether or not the sums appropriated in the Estimate for lunatic idiots should be paid out of the public Exchequer.
 MR. DAWSON  said, he was in favour of the continuance of the grant. It would be most unjust, after the lapse of a century and a half, to withdraw a grant which had been sanctioned for so long a period, and
 649
 LORD NAAS  said, he would suggest that the hon. Member for Montrose should next year call attention to the whole subject of religious grants. They would then have the matter decided upon principle, and be spared these annual attacks upon particular items.
 MR. A. SMITH  suggested, that as the present Secretary to the Treasury knew nothing of the subject referred to by the hon. and learned Member for Marylebone (Mr. Edwin James) perhaps the late Secretary could give them some information.
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  observed that as a member of the Church of England he really was ashamed of calling on Roman Catholics and Dissenters to pay this Vote.
 MR. A. SMITH  said, he thought that what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman proved that the Commission had the means to take, and, therefore, ought to take the whole cost upon itself.
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to refer to the item of £750, for the West India Encumbered Estates Commission. Considering the benefits the West Indies derived from that Commission, he thought they ought to pay for it themselves. This was the principle that governed the Encumbered Estates Court Commission in Ireland, and he thought it ought to have a general application. He wished to know, too, how long the Decimal Coinage Commission was to go on. The Secretary stated in a letter of the 7th of February that the Commissioners had completed the taking of evidence, and expressed a hope that the final report would shortly be laid before her Majesty. The Commission appeared now to consist only of the Secretary and Assistant Secretary, and he did not see why their salaries should be paid for the whole year.
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR : But are they to be paid for the whole year, when their labours are already completed?
 MR. FITZROY  said, he was afraid he could give no more satisfactory answer to the question now than he gave when it was put to him on a former occasion. Some two years ago great objection was made to giving the cows in the park unrestricted liberty of roaming over the ground, and the cows were consequently removed to an enclosure, and sheep were substituted in their place. The alteration was made to meet the convenience of the public; and if the public wished to again give the cows the range of the whole park, instead of confining them to their present restricted area, he thought the old system must be reverted to.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he would wish to put the question to the noble Lord in a different shape, as he presumed that his conduct would be guided by the intentions of the French Government in this matter. He (Mr. Lindsay) had always maintained that while France went on increasing her naval armaments we should be under the disagreeable necessity of increasing ours, so as to maintain the relative strength of the two countries. He believed it was false economy to allow our defences to fall down to the low point at which they stood in 1852; and to have maintained our navy in an efficient state would have been cheaper than to have suffered such losses from unfavourable exchanges and fluctuations in prices as we had experienced for want of that efficiency. He wished to put this to the noble Lord. If what they saw in the newspapers was true,—he said nothing about the army, because there were Austria, Prussia, and other places, upon account of whom France might assume it to be necessary to maintain a large army, while it was solely on account of England that she kept up her navy—the Emperor of the French had made the first move towards us, showing that he honestly desired to maintain peace, which was certainly his best and wisest policy. That being so, he sincerely trusted that the noble Lord—considering there had been an increase of £4,000,000 in the Estimates, saying nothing of the sum of £600,000 proposed by the Bill which was introduced late the other evening, which would raise the amount to nearly £5,000,000—would meet the Emperor of the French in a like spirit. He trusted the noble Lord, under such circumstances, would not fail to reduce our armaments, and so terminate this enormous expenditure of money.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that at present there was quite sufficient Government business to occupy the time of the House, both morning and evening, for some days to come, and all the Government could do was to give precedence to the business which must necessarily be transacted before the Session could be closed, and which, therefore, it was the general interest of hon. Members to dispose of as soon as possible.
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  said, he entirely differed from the right hon. Member for Coventry (Mr. Ellice) in his view of Captain Palliser's expedition; and he would ask the right hon. Gentleman, as an influential member of the Hudson's Bay Company, why, if that company had possessed all this information for forty years, they had never communicated it to the public? He (Mr. Seymour) thought the discoveries of Captain Palliser were very important. One-half of the country visited by him was now opened by steam. Every product of a temperate climate could be grown in that country, even where it was most unfruitful; the soil went on improving all the way to the Rocky Mountains, and became more prolific as it approached the Pacific. Perhaps the most important service of Captain Palliser was that which he accomplished during the last year, when he discovered four passes through the Rocky Mountains—one of them adapted for wheel carriages; and he (Mr. Seymour) hoped that now, since steam communication had been opened on the Red River, the Government would establish a mail between the Red River and Vancouver's Island.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the Returns respecting the Police and Prisons, and the accounts relating to them, were made up to the end of September in each year.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, there were three kinds of defensive fortifications, all different in their character and objects. The first kind consisted of defensive fortifications for our coasts. He believed these were not required under present circumstances to the extent contemplated; and that the construction of them would only be money thrown away. Then there were fortifications for the defence of our arsenals. These were necessary in a limited degree, and he trusted that the Commissioners about to be appointed would recommend such works only as the exigencies of the country might demand. Fortifications of the third class were intended for the internal defence of the kingdom. He believed they were not generally suited to England, although the highest military authority which this country ever possessed, the late Duke of Wellington, thought that works of internal defence, to a limited extent, should be established at such places as Croydon, Brighton, and elsewhere. But if these works were constructed, soldiers must be found to man them, and, therefore, for his own part, he was anxious to see the defences of our dockyards restricted to the smallest possible scale; and if, as he believed, gigantic works were about to be constructed at Devonport, he trusted the Government would well weigh all the circumstances of the case before they embarked the country in an expense of that nature. He was informed that the force requisite to hold the proposed works at Devonport would be between 30,000 and 40,000 men, and he was at a loss to know where such a garrison could be found with our present limited number of troops. Our army upon paper amounted only to 110,000 men, and if 40,000 were abstracted for Devonport, 30,000 for Portsmouth, and large garrisons for Chatham, Sheerness, and other arsenals, it was plain that only
 701
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he rose to ask whether there is any objection to lay on the table of the House a Copy of Captain Spratt's investigation on the subject of the Deposits of the Delta of the Nile;
 671
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : Sir, I have listened in common with the rest of the House with admiration to the eloquent speech of my right hon. Friend. If I- do not follow him through the whole of it—if I do not venture upon the delicate ground on which he has thought fit to
 693 694 695 696 697 698 carte blanche 699 700
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he had endeavoured to hasten as much as was in his power the rifling of guns, and he understood that among those who had produced the most ingenious mode of rifling guns might be ranked Mr. Barkley Briden; but he was not able at that moment to give any positive opinion upon the subject of his rifles, as experiments were now in progress to ascertain which was the best mode of rifling guns. As soon as those experiments were completed he would be able to form an opinion on the subject.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, it was the intention of the Government next year to introduce gas into barracks, and to construct works for that purpose; but they did not intend to introduce gas into the camp.
 LORD ASHLEY  said, this subject was of such stupendous importance to the country, that he could not help soliciting the indulgence of the House while he addressed to them a few words in relation to it. He maintained that in comparison with the efficiency of our navy, everything else connected with the maintenance of a defensive force sank into insignificance. It was all very well to dilate on the value of the army, and it was very well, too, to talk of the usefulness of voluntary rifle corps; but unless they had an efficient navy, well manned and equipped, able and willing to meet the enemy wherever he appeared, they could not consider that the country was safe from the aggressions of a foreign foe. It was argued that the Emperor of the French was about to reduce his naval force, and that we ought to follow his example; but what, he should like to know, did the proposed reduction of the Emperor of the French amount to? Simply to the placing of a few ships out of commission, the crews of which might be despatched to Brest or Toulon, or some other of the great naval depots of France, where he would be able to lay his hands upon them whenever they were needed. But what would become of our sailors if they were discharged? They would be scattered to the four quarters of the globe. He (Lord Ashley) had had the honour of serving in the Black Sea fleet, and he believed a finer body of men than the crews of the ships composing that fleet never left our shores. But what had become of those men now? Some had gone to America, some to Australia, some had gone on board South Sea whalers, and, in fact, they were scattered over all parts of the world. After the war was over a reduction took place; the men must have bread; and as they could not be employed in the navy they went on board other ships in pursuit of the means of existence. It would therefore be found impossible to collect those men together again, and months must elapse before practical and efficient seamen could be found to supply their place. It was said, it took he knew not how many months or years to make a soldier, but a still longer time must elapse before a man could be made an efficient sailor; and that being so, it was, in his opinion, of the utmost consequence that our navy should be maintained in the utmost state of efficiency, without regard to the attitude which might be assumed by any of the other Powers of Europe. Her navy it was that had made
 667
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he was sorry to say that some delay had occurred in carrying out the experiments, owing to a delay in the execution of the order by the firm who had to construct the plates of various sorts. But they would be proceeded with immediately. As to the second question, he could only reply that a second man of war covered with iron would not be constructed till the result of the experiment in the first case had been brought to a conclusion.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, this would depend upon the result of the experiments first spoken of.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he would not have risen had he not thought it necessary to correct one or two small errors in the able statement of the hon. Member for Rochdale. The hon. Gentleman had rather run away with the idea that we were stronger in ships and the French weaker than was generally supposed. He had better show to the House what the French actually had in vessels. The French had got in commission 20 screw line-of-battle ships; but they had got besides what they called reserve ships. These reserve ships, 12 in number, though not in commission, might be put to sea in a very few days' time. The latest information showed that notwithstanding the large force at sea, there were 3,000 sailors in the barracks at Brest, and that the ships to which these sailors belonged were ready in the port of Brest, so that he should be deceiving the House if he were to lead them to believe that these reserve ships were not actually ready for service if they were wanted. The actual state of the French Navy, then, should war unfortunately arise, was, that they had 20 line-of-battle ships in actual commission, and 12-in reserve, making in all 32 line-of-battle ships, which, to all intents and purposes, might be said to be in commission. Compare this state of things with that which existed in this country, and it would be found that instead of our having one third more ships than France—the proportion which the hon. Member himself allowed—we had only 26 sail of the line in commission. In addition to these we had nine blockships, which though not strictly speaking line-of-battle ships, could yet be made of great service. Putting these two together it would be found that in regard to large ships France and this country stood nearly equal. With respect to frigates, he would not deceive the House—the French were stronger than we were. He did not mean to create any alarm, but it was only
 723
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, he hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would not press his Motion to a division, since he must feel perfectly satisfied with the approbation with which the principles con-
 725
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he wished to ask whether the Government intended to take up the church rates Abolition Bill and help it through its remaining stages, or to take no further steps in the matter?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that speaking generally and from a cursory examination of the Estimates, if he had been still at the Head of the Department of Works he should have recommended the principal sums which he saw down in the Votes in connection with that department.
 LORD LOVAINE  said, that recurring to the question of the hon. Member for Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck), he thought the House was likely to be misled by the term, "reduction of forces," which had been used by the papers that were said to convey the intentions of the Emperor of the French. It might easily be made to appear upon paper that when the French Emperor had laid up his ships in ordinary and dismissed his crews the forces of the two countries would be equal, but that would not be so in reality. It would be found that when our ships were laid up, we had no means whatever for reassembling the crews. We had no reserve to fall back upon in case of attack; whereas the French seamen were placed in barracks, so that the Government had nothing to do but to press every workman they could find into their dockyards, fit out their ships, to be in a position to put an enormous number of men on board in an incredibly short space of time. Under these circumstances he did think the Government would not be doing their duty in making any reduction whatever, unless they received an absolute pledge from the Emperor of the French, not only that a portion of his ships would be laid up in ordinary, but that he would not build any more ships of that sort.
 MR. BLACK  said, it was the essential principle of persecution to make grants in support of one set of views and refuse them to another. This grant, which went to a mere handful of Dissenters, had gone on increasing for the last ten years. It was now close upon £40,000; while to the whole of the Roman Catholic body in Ireland a grant of only £60,000 was made. He wished to see the whole of these grants taken up as a substantial question, and he hoped that they would all be done away with.
 MR. LEFROY  defended the grant, on the ground of the respectability of the recipients and the purity of their doctrines.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that no one could fail to respect the advocate of peace. He feared, however, that the effect of the speech which had been delivered that night by the hon. Member for Rochdale, and of the course he indicated, if pursued, might be to excite in the country a discontent with taxation which would impede the efforts of that House to provide properly for the defence of the country. The hon. Member for Rochdale was a man of a fixed idea. He could not believe that any feelings or passions unconnected with commerce, permanently or even frequently, actuated mankind and nations; he seemed to forget that England had for her neighbour a most chivalrous nation, but a nation whose passion was military glory. The exaggeration of this feeling on the part of our neighbours across the Channel was a misfortune to this country, for which the hon. Member made no allowance. He made no allowance for the fact that any explanations which the Sovereign of France might give to-day might, in a year, be annulled by the popular voice. Of what practical use was it to refer to declarations made by M. Thiers and M. Lamartine, they were now both politically dead, no one could say how soon the present Emperor might be so too. The chief object of this Motion was to induce the Chancellor of the Exchequer to separate the expenditure which was required for the defence of our arsenals from the ordinary expenditure of the year, and to prevent the people being misled into believing that our military expenditure was being permanently increased, because we were prepared to devote a considerable sum to the protection of those arsenals which were now worse than totally defenceless. The opinion of the most competent military authorities was, that the fortifications of Portsmouth were worse than useless, and no one could look at them without seeing that they would, if tested by an attack, prove merely a trap for the defenders of the place. The mode of raising the sum proposed to be levied under the income tax was not likely to be popular, and it was evident that if our arsenals were to be defended it would be prudent to separate the extraordinary expenditure requisite for the rehabilitation of these defences from the ordinary military expenditure.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he believed the House was not at that moment disposed to enter upon a discussion of the large questions involved in the settlement of the region referred to; but with regard to the information received from Captain Palliser, he had to state that all that the Government had received had been published. That information had no doubt led to an increased hope that the day would come when that region would be filled up with English colonies. There was a mistake committed, however, on this subject which was wholly a mistake of dates; and if that were borne in mind, the language used by both sides might be true; at all events there need be no alarm that there might be an intention on the part of the Government to establish a British colony where as yet no colonist had gone. No journal had been received from Captain Palliser; but a report, despatched on the 7th October last, was received on the 5th of January by the Government; he then made a demand, which was small, for a sum of money, and that was sent out to him immediately afterwards. It was believed that Captain Palliser would cross the Rocky Mountains, and would reach home this autumn by Panama.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, it was quite true that Captain Bennett, the Emigration agent in Glasgow, had been for some time at Aldershot, but not for twelve months. There was an efficient substitute at Glasgow, and the public had not suffered. However, as there was some irregularity in the matter, it had been intimated to Captain Bennett that he would be called on to choose between the two offices.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland whether a Memorial has been received from Mr. Wrenfordsley, Solicitor, of Dublin, applying for compensation, on the plea of having suggested that the Landed Estates Court in Ireland should be made self-supporting; and whether it is the intention of the Irish Government to recommend such claim to the Treasury for consideration.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, that a report from this Commission ought to be made to the House, and then hon. Members might object to any of the schemes proposed by the Commissioners. At present their responsibility was frittered away, and rested nowhere. Large charities were daily disposed of, without any check. The course was that the Commissioners issued a certificate, which was confirmed as a matter of course by one of the secondary Courts of Chancery without further inquiry. In this way there was a divided authority without sufficient responsibility. If the charity Commis-
 655
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the Act of last Session had empowered the Home Secretary to send down inspectors to make inquiry where local improvements were contemplated; and upon their Report the Home Secretary gave power to the municipality to carry out the improvements proposed. A Bill was in course of preparation which would, to some extent, modify the provisions of this Act.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the Gentleman had not done him the honour of making an application to him, and he could not, therefore, say anything about the matter.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that as he understood the hon. Member for Montrose meant to raise the question in a fuller House next Session, he should then be prepared to reurge the reason why he thought the Vote should be maintained. He thought, that being the case, it would be advisable for the Committee not further to discuss the question on the present occasion.
 MR. ELLICE  (Coventry)  said, he had some knowledge of that country, and he had lately seen an able officer of the Engineers who had returned from exploring it, because, as he said, he would not waste his own time and the public money in such an unprofitable enterprise. He believed the picture the hon. Gentleman had drawn of the country was greatly exaggerated. The only way in which it could be reached was through the United States; there was no practicable route through Canada. The money spent on the expedition of Captain Palliser was, he thought, entirely wasted, as no additional information to that already possessed by the Hudson's Bay Company for the last forty years was gained. He trusted, therefore, the House would not authorize any further expenditure.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he rose pursuant to notice, to propose a Motion as to the mode of providing for the expense of completing the necessary works of national defence, projected or already in progress. If any apology were required for the Motion he was about to submit, it would be found in the preliminary discussion which had already taken place in the House that evening. The question of the national defences had only to be mentioned in that House to excite a feeling of general interest, and he believed the feeling of that House on the subject was a very inadequate representation of that which prevailed throughout the country. They had just been called on by the Government to make a large increase in the taxes of the year, and the reason on which that demand was grounded was the necessity of adding to our national defences. This year our armaments would cost us £26,000,000, and in order to meet that enormous outlay we should have to submit to an augmentation of the most odious and exceptional of all our imposts. In a time of profound peace we were about to nearly double the income tax, and there was a general disposition throughout the country to inquire whence the great exigency arose. It was obvious that those enormous estimates were the result of some great necessity, and were the evidence either of some imagined or some perceived danger. How long, people asked, was that state of things to continue, and what was the probability of these estimates either being diminished or continuing annually increasing? There was a point at which inquiry on this subject became the duty of Parliament, and anything like evasion or concealment on the part of the Government was fraught with danger and involved a positive betrayal of the interests of the country. There
 677 Moniteur 678 679 680 681 682 683 684 685 686 687 688 689 690 Moniteur. minimum 691 minimum minimum 692
 MR. HOWES  remarked that, as there were many unjust points connected with the income tax, it would he better not to attempt on the present occasion to remove merely one.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  observed, that if the husband having £80 a year, and the wife having £40 a year, lived together and enjoyed the joint income together as husband and wife, then the husband would be properly assessed. If, however, the husband and wife were living entirely apart, and maintaining different establishments, then the husband would not be assessable on account of the wife's income.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, he quite concurred with the hon. Member (Mr. Palk) in thinking that the operations of the inspectors of the Board of Health had been attended with most mischievous results. Indeed, he was surprised at the smallness of the Vote, as he expected to have found some items which were not there. He was engaged upon a trial at Chelmsford, where a verdict was given against an inspector for fouling a stream,
 652
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, that with a surplus income of £50,000 the Commissioners certainly ought to pay their own expenses. These funds, though applied to augment small livings, were properly applied to the interests of the Church and the clergy.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he rose to ask the First Lord of the Treasury whether there is any intention on the part of Her Majesty's Government to reduce the Naval Armament of the Country. The question involved considerations of such importance that he should beg the indulgence of the House for a few moments while he stated the grounds upon which he was induced to put it at that particular period. He would admit at the outset that the question was suggested solely by public rumour, but the subject affected so closely not only the honour and the interests, but the very existence of this country as a nation, that he was sure it would be received as more than a sufficient reason for the course he had adopted, and an ample justification for his pressing for a clear and conclusive answer on the part of the Government. He trusted that those who had done him the honour of noticing his conduct in that House would acquit him of being influenced by party motives. He could assure the House that he entertained no such feelings; but he could not ignore the history of the past; he could not forget that a very few years ago, at the outbreak of the Crimean war, they had in office what was called a coalition Government. The noble Lord at the head of the present Government and the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs both held influential positions in that Government, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer of that day was again Chancellor of the Exchequer in the present day. In short, the existing Government was of the same composite order as that which so unfortunately characterized the Government of the year 1854. The conduct of the Government in 1853, at the outbreak of the Crimean war, must be fresh in the recollection of almost every hon. Gentle-
 660 661 662 663
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that to put himself right he wished to explain that what he had stated was that the Government of which the Chancellor of the Exchequer was formerly a member had attempted to carry on war not with peace taxation, but with a peace establishment—quite a different thing. The observations of the right hon. Gentleman, therefore, were without weight upon that subject.
 MR. BENTINCK  remarked that he had not been at all surprised to find that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who had always been a strong opponent of the income tax, should have had recourse to an increase of that tax as a means of meeting a deficiency. The right hon. Gentleman had been equally unfortunate on former occasions. A few years since the right hon. Gentleman was a member of a Government which attempted to carry on a great war with a peace establishment. Every one was aware of the unhappy consequences that ensued from that attempt, for the subsequent great amount of blood shed and lost was attributable to the want of energetic measures at the commencement of the war. The right hon. Gentleman now in a time of assumed peace came forward to impose a war tax. If, however, the country was to be called upon to pay a war tax he hoped the national defences would be placed in such a condition as to justify the expenditure.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he was quite willing to admit the ability of the speech of the hon. Member for Rochdale, but he must express his surprise and astonishment that so much ability and ingenuity should be wasted on positions so untenable. In alluding to the comparison made between the Navies of France and England the noble Lord opposite had omitted to correct one error which was too commonly entertained. It was thought in many quarters that if we could only show on paper a numerical superiority of ships we had done all that was necessary. Now, the real truth was that the comparison ought to be made, not between the ships, but the facilities of manning them; and unless a system could be established by which our ships could be rapidly and efficiently manned all our other preparations would be only so much money wasted. He should be glad to hear some clear and precise information from Her Majesty's Government on this all-important question. He had listened with the greatest pleasure to the able speech of the right hon. Member for Stroud (Mr. Horsman), and quite concurred in the view he took of our position in relation to other countries; and he hoped the House would support his Motion. He hoped they should hear a declaration from Her Majesty's Government that they were determined, whatever other countries might do, to place this country in such a state of defence that an invasion of our shores would cease to be matter of speculation. When they reflected what effects the occupation of the smallest portion of the soil of England would have, it seemed madness not at once to take those steps which were necessary for the honour and safety of the country.
 MR. SCLATER BOOTH  remarked that he did not see that any credit would accrue to the House, or any honour and dignity to the country, from these alarming speeches. It was only a few weeks since the government of the country was placed in the hands of noble Lords and hon. Genlemen opposite, and if they were thought fit to be entrusted with that responsibility he would recommend the House to leave the duty of providing for the defences of the country in their hands. He for one did not think it either a wise or a dignified course to raise these alarms, and to excite that agitation which was now-a-days so rapidly spread through the country by means of the press.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the hon. Member thought the present Vote was not justified by principle, but it was difficult to reconcile the whole ecclesiastical state of Ireland with any principle. The Established Church in Ireland was the church of the small minority of the people. The religion of the great majority was the Roman Catholic. The people of this latter persuasion received from the State nothing but the grant to Maynooth, which he thought a very parsimonious one. The Vote before the Committee, however, might safely be defended on the ground of public policy. He had not heard that the Presbyterians of the north of Ireland had expressed any wish that this grant should be withdrawn. They were a most exemplary body of men, and every one acquainted with the north of Ireland knew how much that part of the country was indebted to them for peace and harmony, while other parts of the country had been in an unquiet state. Putting it on the lowest ground, therefore, and reckoning what expenditure these men had saved in police and troops, the money could not be said to be badly disposed of.
 MR. PEASE  said, he could bear testimony to the business-like and equitable manner in which the Commissioners attended to their affairs, but as he found that by the last report there had been for the year a surplus of £57,000, he could not understand why the Commission should not pay its own way.
 MR. BRADY  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for War, whether it
 657
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it was out of order to discuss Amendments to a Bill which would come before the House at a subsequent period of the evening.
 COLONEL SMYTH  said, he wished to inquire whether it is the intention of the Committee who investigated the Petition against the return for this Borough to take any ulterior steps in the matter?
 MR. VANCE  said, he was of opinion that Mr. Wrenfordsley was entitled to some
 659
 MR. J. EWART , in the absence of the hon. Baronet the Member for Tavistock (Sir John Trelawny), said that his hon. Friend regretted very much, that owing to the advanced period of the Session, it was impossible that this Bill could be proceeded with, and the Motion for going into Committee was then withdrawn.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he had been one of a Committee that investigated this subject two years ago, and he agreed much more with the right hon. Member for Co-
 674
 MR. COBDEN : Sir, I do not pretend to enter on this discussion with the object of attempting to throw any light in a technical point of view on the question at issue. I may, however, observe that the remarks which have been made in the course of the speeches to which I have just listened convince me that we have arrived at a stage in this matter of our defences at which it is quite clear that the old appliances and the remedies which we seek to apply are no longer of use. We have been asked to vote this year for this purpose no less than £26,000,000 sterling; £12,500,000 of that sum, or nearly twice the amount which was voted for a similar object when I first
 705 minimum 706 707 708 ne plus ultra 709 710 d. 711 712 Edinburgh Review, Quarterly Review, The Times morceau: "At Toulon, notwithstanding the peace, applications for leave of absence are refused, and the men-of-war in harbour are armed with picked crews. Tomahawks and boarding pikes are being distributed among the ships in harbour, but principally on board the  Villa de Paris. Edinburgh Review 713 714 715 d. 716 717
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether it would be practicable to lay on the table of the House the Judicial Statistics of England and Wales which are made up to the 29th day of September each year before the succeeding Easter recess, and whether some similar Statistics for Scotland might not be appended to the said Report.
 MR. SPOONER  said, the Committee ought to know whether this Vote was for work already done, or did it refer to the current year.
 MR. SPOONER  said, that, as a local Commissioner, he should continue to act on the view he had taken—that the husband had no control over the wife's separate income. As there was no appeal from the decision of the Commissioners, it was desirable that the law should be made clear.
 MR. SPOONER  denied that it rested on the same ground as a grant the Maynooth. The two cases were altogether different. He had always protested, and continued to protest, against the Maynooth grant, because he believed that in granting it, they were doing that which was contrary to the Word of God, and in complete opposition to the oath taken by the Sovereign of the country. He held that while they main-
 650
 MR. SPOONER  said, he wished to call the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to one or two cases of hardships, which had come under his own notice as a Commissioner, in order that he might consider whether he could not frame some provision to deal with them in future. In one case a small tradesman returned his property at £80 per annum, which was not sufficient to render him liable to the income-tax; but his wife was possessed of a separate income of £40 a year, which was vested in trustees for her sole benefit. The
 640
 MR. BEALE  said, he would suggest that that this duty should be made payable as soon as levied, the same as other duties. He would reduce the existing arrears by requiring payment of them by instalments of one-eighth every three months, so as to let them die out in two years.
 MR. LAING  said, that the late Board of Health was dead and buried. He could not give any information on the subject of the damages referred to by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Marylebone.
 MR. LAING  said, that the general sum had been divided into items, of which the present Vote was one, for the convenience of the House.
 MR. LAING  said, the Vote had been the result of an Act passed last year, after considerable discussion, abolishing the Board of Health, but retaining certain machinery of that Board which was deemed to be useful to the public. The offices were by no means sinecures, their holders being fully employed.
 MR. LAING  said, there were some unpaid expenses included in the Vote.
 MR. LAING  said, he could inform the hon. Member for Poole (Mr. Danby Seymour) that the Decimal Coinage Commission was considered as terminated.
 MR. LAING  said, that no demand had been made on the Treasury; he presumed, therefore, that the damages had been defrayed by the local boards concerned.
 MR. LAING  said, that in deference to the wish of the House, he would consent to postpone the Vote till the evening sitting.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the Ecclesiastical Commission was founded not merely for the benefit of the Church, but also for the benefit of the Church lessees. By means of the powers vested in them, they had been enabled so to deal with the Church property as to obtain a surplus, which was applied, in conjunction with grants from benevolent persons, for the benefit of smaller livings of £40, £50, or £60 a year. In addition to this, the Commission had dealt with lessees' property, and the lessees never would have got the advantages they had obtained had it not been for
 654
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that with reference to one of the cases put by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, the matter turned on a point of law, involving an important principle. The husband received £80 a year, and his wife £40; but if the husband had no control whatever over the wife's income, he ought not to be assessed to the income-tax at all.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he presumed that the Amendments which stood
 676
 MR. SCULLY  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury whether the Sovereign of the Roman States has finally accepted or declined the position of President over the Confederate States of Italy; and whether, in the event of the Sovereign Pontiff accepting that office, it is intended on the part of Her Majesty's Government to adopt effectual steps for establishing direct diplomatic relations with the Court of Rome?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  observed, that he had not ventured to give an opinion on the point of law, and had only spoken of the principle which ought to be adopted in legislation. He confessed that, with respect to legislation and liability to the tax, nothing seemed more reasonable than to contemplate the incomes of husband and wife as one income.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would thank the hon. Gentleman for his suggestion. The Government having had to submit their financial proposals immediately after coming into office, and at a period when the financial year was considerably advanced, had not thought it desirable to make any sudden alteration in the malt credit. This credit was equivalent to a loan of 2½ millions of public money to those engaged in the trade; and no precipitate alteration could be made without seriously affecting the trade. The mode in which this credit could best be dealt with would be matter of future consideration for the Government.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he wished to move the insertion of a clause extending to deferred annuities purchased from the Government, the allowances made, under the Act of 1853, in respect of deferred annuities purchased from insurance companies. It was only by an oversight the provision he now proposed had been omitted from the Act of 1853.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said that persons having incomes of £100 to £150 a year would only be liable to pay 3 d. d., d. d.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply to the question of the hon. Member for Evesham (Sir Henry Willoughby) said, he could not imagine what there was in the Bill or the statement which he had made to lead to the idea that the tax was to have a retrospective effect. It had nothing to do with past income, except in the circuitous and equivocal sense
 644 d. d. d.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he agreed that it was the right—nay, even the duty and obligation
 641 642
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in reply to the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) he had to state that he did not intend to introduce any Amendment to meet the case of persons quitting their farms at Michaelmas. As he had before stated, the Government was practically and substantially asking Parliament to tax people at the rate of 4 d.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he doubted whether the Bill in its present shape ought to pass. At present there was nothing to prevent locomotives passing on the public roads. The present Bill brought the matter under the cognizance of the Legislature, so that, in case any accident should arise, the Government ought not to be blamed.
 MR. BAXTER  said, there had been no occassion during the last twenty years on which this Vote had been taken without a division, and he did not intend that the present should form an exception to the rule. Next Session he intended to submit to the House a formal Resolution; which he hoped would have the effect of getting rid of this annual discussion, by providing that the payments should cease as the clergymen died out; he should on the present occasion address only a few observations to the Committee. In opposing this Vote he was not actuated by any hostile feeling towards the Presbyterian Synod of Ulster, for, being a Nonconformist himself, he should be the last man to entertain a hostile feeling towards them. He belived that, however, they never would have peace in the House or in the country until every one of those annual grants for religious purposes were removed from the Estimates. Many of these grants were to rich bodies, who ought to be ashamed to come begging to the House for these small sums. The clergy for whom the Vote was intended were no doubt many of them most estimable men, and had rendered great services to the people of the districts in which they were located; but inasmuch as no such grant was voted by that House for the Nonconforming clergy in England or Scotland, he did not see why a different rule should prevail with regard to Ireland. He could understand the principle which was acted upon in England and Scotland, where the English Church and the Pres-
 648 Regium Donum s. d.,
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, that before the noble Viscount rose to reply he would beg leave to suggest that one of the best means of protecting the interests of this great constitutional empire would be by the
 664
 MR. DEEDES  said, he also would urge the postponement of the Vote.
 MR. DEEDES  said, there were works going on at present under the Commission in which the public were as much interested as in the operation of the Tithe Commutation Act. It mattered not to the Commissioners how these charges were defrayed. The amount applicable to the augmentation of small livings was on the increase; and he hoped that a sum of £200,000 would soon be thus applicable. The sum now asked did not nearly cover the expenses of the Commission, but it was the sum which Parliament had been accustomed to pay.
 MR. W. EWART  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works whether there is any prospect that the large space near the middle of Hyde Park recently enclosed with iron railings, so as to exclude the public, would be restored for the use and recreation of the public.
 Mr. MASSEY  in the chair.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he rose to put a question to the Secretary of State for War with reference to Mr. Barkley Briden's invention for rifling guns. Experiments had been tried with the guns which had passed through that gentleman's process, and it was found that the range was much greater than those of ordinary guns. In the year 1856 a 32-pounder was placed at the disposition of Mr. Briden, and he was allowed to rifle it, and this year there had been some experiments at Shoeburyness, and with success. It appeared that by an ordinary 32-pounder the shot was thrown
 675
 MR. MONSELL  said, he had moved that the Report of the proceedings be laid on the table of the House; and he thought it would be premature in him to express an opinion until the House should have had an opportunity of considering the evidence given before that Committee.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that nearly a million of money had been spent in the last few years on Commissions appointed offhand by that House.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that though the income tax bore hardly in some cases, yet, as the money was wanted, it must be ob-
 645
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he thought the hon. Gentleman exercised a sound discretion in not pressing his Motion on the present occasion. He hoped and trusted, however, that this tax would be reserved for time of war, and not be made a permanent source of the income of the country.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to ask how much additional would have to be paid by persons having less than £150 a year.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  observed that some items in the Vote were anything but charitable items. No doubt many of the persons mentioned in the Estimates, such as lunatics and paupers, ought to be maintained, but they should be maintained, as in England, out of the county cess, and not out of the general taxation of the country.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he thought there must be another Board of Health, as Dr. Simon received a salary of £1,500 a year, which was not included in this Vote.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, be must complain of the increase in the Estimates under the head No. 7. In 1843 those items amounted to £90,000; they were? now £1,028,236. He denied the necessity for such an expenditure in the dilapidated state of our finances. It was said these Votes were prepared by the late Government. If so, he hoped they would explain them.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he should be glad to know why the salary of the Chief Commissioner, £1,000, was paid out of the Church funds, and the salary of the Secretary, also £1,000, was included in this Estimate.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he must also object to this Vote. He should like to know on what principle of morality or Christianity the Church of England could call upon the Roman Catholics and Dissenters to pay a portion of the expenses of a Commission which had been established entirely for the benefit of that Church, and which had been productive to it of very great pecuniary benefit.
 Sir CHARLES NAPIER  said, he had listened with great attentien to this debate, and quite agreed as to the absolute necessity of keeping the country in a proper state of defence. He did not think, however, that this end would be attained by spending enormous sums in fortifying our seaport towns. For instance, Portsmouth could only be taken by  coup-de-main, 702 Blenheim Blenheim. 703 704 Cries of
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, this was a poor man's question. If this grant were withdrawn there would be no means of paying the clergy. He knew of cases in the north of Ireland where the clergy were obliged to practise agriculture.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  remarked, that no saving had been effected by the abolition of the Board of Health.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, it appeared to him that the proposal in time of peace to tax an annuitant for a whole year, although his interest would expire in January, was so unjust that he must take the sense of the Committee upon it.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to know whether the increased tax was to apply to Long Annuities ceasing next January. Did the Chancellor of the Exchequer mean to make the tax retrospective; that the dividends paid in April and July should be retrospectively taxed?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, as the House had passed the Resolution upon which the Bill was founded, he should not reopen the question of the propriety of the proposed increase. He was inclined to believe that if there had been greater care in the expenditure of public money in past years, there would have been no necessity for the proposed increase. The repeated changes of Government that had occurred of late years had rendered it impossible for them to act upon any fixed system. As soon as a good navy had been established the ships were paid off, and then immediately afterwards it became necessary to collect them together again. The only question which he intended to raise was whether in cases where there was no income there should nevertheless be taxation. In other words, he wished to ask whether in cases where there was only an income for one-half or three-quarters of the financial year, it was to be enacted that the full amount of tax for the whole year should be levied.
 MR. CAIRD  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, whether any new instructions were sent to Captain Palliser on receipt of his Report of October 7, 1858, in regard to his further explorations along the American boundary line and in the Rocky Mountains; and whether Captain Palliser's Journal has been received and will be printed. The expedition had been ordered by the Government two years ago to examine the country between Lake Superior and the Rocky Mountains, within British territory. The evidence before the Hudson's Bay Committee had been so contradictory in regard to the agricultural value of that country, that Government had, very properly, determined to institute an impartial examination. The duty had been intrusted to Captain Palliser, and the papers narrating that officer's proceedings had been lately laid before them. There were two points more especially urged against the likelihood of future settlement—inaccessibility and severity of climate. The first of these had been practically set at rest by the fact that a weekly mail had now been established between St. Paul's and Red River, and a steamer was now regularly plying on its waters. The journey,
 672 673
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I am desirous, before this discussion closes, to offer some few observations to the House, and I wish particularly to notice some portions of the speech of the hon. Member for Rochdale. In the early part of his speech the hon. Member instituted a comparison of the state of the English and French Navies, but in that statement he made an omission—no doubt unintentionally—which goes very far to destroy the value and importance of the statement he made.
 718 719 720 721 722
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty what progress has been made with the experiments of the effects of Artillery on metal casing of ships which were directed by the late Board of Admiralty; and what steps it is intended to take for the fulfilment of the intentions of the late Board to order the construction of a second man of war covered with iron?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he would further ask whether the Admiralty intended to experiment on sailing vessels.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, it appeared these damages and costs amounted to some £5,000, and he should like to know who paid them?
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he had always voted against these grants, and should do so on the present occasion.
 MR. PALK  said, he thought the expenses of the London Office which had been established under the Local Government Act should be diminished, there being nothing for it to do. He could not see what good it did for the £5,965 a year which it cost. There was a charge of £600 travelling expenses, but, having conferred local government upon towns, there was no need of sending inspectors from London. In fact, these latter gentlemen did more harm than good.
 MR. PALK  said, it was desirable that the Vote should be postponed until the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Treasury had acquired some further information in respect of it. He found some inspectors were paid £2,000 a year. He should like to know who they were. Again, there was a sum of £600 charged for "travelling and personal expenses," and £1,000 for "clerks." He should really like to have some information as to these items.
 MR. PALK  said, he believed he was in order in asking what course the Government would pursue.
 MR. PALK  said, he wished to ask what part the Government would take on the Amendments to be moved in Committee on the Church Rates Abolition Bill, and whether the House would go into Committee at a late hour or not.
 MR. CROSS  said, he wished to draw attention to the circumstance that the Church Rates Abolition Bill was amongst the Orders of the day. Such a measure ought
 665
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he had no general knowledge of those Estimates, as they had not come before him when Secretary to the Treasury. He had never heard of the damages referred to by the hon. and learned Member. If they had been paid out of the public funds, he presumed they would appear in the Estimates under the head of "Civil Contingencies."
 MR. CAVE  said, that since the West India Incumbered Commission had been founded few purchasers could be obtained for the deteriorated property, but he had no doubt that, when in course of time purchasers presented themselves and the West Indies began to feel the benefit of the Commission, the fees received would pay its expenses.
 MR. HUTT  said, he agreed very much with the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken. He did not rise to prolong this discussion, but to ask the Government when the report of the Commission appointed by the late Government on the subject of Dockyard Expenditure would be laid before the House. He thought, considering the importance of the subject, they ought to have some pledge that the report would be laid on the table before the prorogation.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, if I did not at once reply to the questions which were put to me by my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Cork (Mr. Scully), it is because I thought it desirable that I should defer doing so in order that I might be in a position to reply to the other inquiries which I found by the notice paper were to be addressed to me upon this Motion. My hon. and learned Friend asks whether the Pope has agreed, or is about to agree, to become a member of the Italian Confederation, and whether in that event Her Majesty's Government would think fit to open direct diplomatic relations with him? To the former of those questions I am not competent to give an answer, inasmuch as in the first place the confederation is not formed, and in the next place our relations with the Pope are not such as to induce him to communicate very freely to us what the intentions upon the subject
 668 669 670
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that, as he would not be able to speak twice on the Motion before the Chair, he would delay his answer.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I imagine that my right hon. Friend must see from the course of the debate that he has accomplished the objects which he had in view in making this Motion, which I take to have been to impress upon the House by his own remarks the great necessity of speed in the completion of those fortifications which are essential to the safety and defence of our naval establishments, and to show that the measures for the permanent defence of the country are measures which indicate no desire on the part of the country for war, and which can give umbrage to no foreign Power, since they indicate no suspicion or jealousy of any foreign Power, but are founded on the common-sense principle that a nation desirous of peace must be able, and must show to all the word that it is able, to defend itself against all attacks. The unanimity displayed on every side must be highly satisfactory to my right hon. Friend, and I should hope that, considering the nature of his Motion, and considering the particular wording of it, he will be satisfied with the result he has obtained, and will not press it to a division which would imply, perhaps, a division of opinion, where really none exists. His Motion goes to express the opinion of the House that some fund should be provided for the completion of our fortifications, and that it should be independent of any Vote of Parliament. It would scarcely be expedient, however, for the House to express any abstract opinion of that sort without pointing out at the same time how that fund was to be provided. It would be more fitting and the more usual course to wait until an occasion arose, when some specific proposal
 726 727 728
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, of course I do not propose at this hour (twenty minutes past twelve) to ask the House to go into Committee of Supply. I hope therefore that the House, considering the long time the Speaker has been kept in the chair, will agree not to proceed with any Orders of the day or notices of Motions which may lead to discussion. I should suggest that we should simply go through the Orders with the view of fixing them for some other day. I should propose that the House should go into Committee of Supply on Monday morning.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he believed the Bills referred to by the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Hadfield) were not under
 750
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the Government had, as a Government, no peculiar function in the matter to which the noble Lord referred. There was a provision in an Act of Parliament to which the language of the Report of the Committee on the Gloucester election had express reference. The report stated that "the Committee have reason to believe that corrupt practices extensively prevailed at the last election for the city of Gloucester." Such were the words of the Act of Parliament in reference to Commissions of Inquiry, and the practice hitherto followed, when a report like that was made, was first of all to place the evidence on the table and to have it printed, and then for the Chairman of the Committee, from whom the Report proceeded, to move an Address to the Crown for a Commission of inquiry. Upon a similar Address being agreed to by the other House, a Commission of inquiry issued. The Government, as such, had no special function in the matter.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the Vote had reference to the Act of last year, and the department by which it was administered was in reality a sub-department of the Home Office. He considered the Local Government Act a useful and wholesome Act if properly administered. Its object was to diminish the expense of obtaining
 752
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he could assure the Committee that there was not the slightest wish on the part of the Government to maintain any unnecessary amount of establishments under the Local Government Act. That Act was passed about this time last year and did not continue the old Board of Health, for none of the Commissioners who were connected with that Board had anything to do with this department, which was, strictly speaking, a sub-department of the Home Office, and had to consider the various requisitions and reports received from the localities which applied to be placed under the operation of the Act. No important measure could be taken without the consent of the Secretary of State, and, in fact, without the sanction of Parliament. He had made inquiries as to the necessity of the existing establishment, and had received a positive assurance that its maintenance was requisite. He might observe that it was quite a mistake to suppose that there was any Board in Whitehall Place. The only Boards referred to by the Act were the local Boards, and the powers were all exercised by the Secretary of State.
 MR. A. SMITH  said, that, after what had taken place during the Session of 1846, he was astonished to find that there were no less than four members of the Commission appointed to institute an inquiry on the subject of Harbours of Refuge who occupied official positions, and who, having given evidence before the Committee of the House of Commons, were identified with certain views. He therefore hoped that before any Government submitted Votes to the House in consequence of the recommendations of the Commission hon. Members themselves would carefully read and consider the evidence which had been taken by that Commission.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he regretted that none of the law officers of the Crown were present to explain the views of the Government upon this important subject. As his hon. and learned Friend
 756
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he also would express his regret at the absence of the law officers of the Crown, but he would afford the Committee all the information in his power with respect to the intentions of the Government. The right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Whiteside) was mistaken in supposing that a larger amount than that now asked for was to
 757 758
 THE CHAIRMAN : Does the hon. Member mean to reject the whole item?
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he hoped the Committee would not come to a decision for omitting the item. He had already explained that there was no more to be a paid Commissioner, and if it was the wish of the House that this particular Statute Law Commission should cease, he had no doubt that the Vote could be proposed next year under some different title. [ Laughter.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he had no
 760
 MR. WHITESIDE  observed, that the Commissioners themselves stated that they did not intend to make any fresh consolidations of importance, because they awaited the result of an inquiry commenced by a Select Committee of the House of Commons as to the expediency of appointing an officer of the Houses of Parliament to revise and improve the current legislation.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he would point out to his right hon. Friend that the Committee he had referred to had no reference to consolidating existing statutes.
 MR. WHITESIDE  replied, that the words of the reference referred distinctly to consolidation.
 MR. A. SMITH  said, that this Vote was annually growing. It appeared that lighthouses had been erected at the Bahamas and Ceylon, British Columbia (in this case at a cost of £7,000), the Cape, Western Australia, and Sable Island, Nova Scotia. He was at loss to understand the principle on which this assistance was given to the Colonies, and as there was an increase of £10,000 on the Vote of last year, he thought the Vote ought to be reduced by that sum.
 MR. DAWSON  said, he would beg to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland what provision it is proposed to make for carrying out the recommendations of the Select Committee of last year (1858) for defraying the expense in County Gaols, of the maintenance of felons and misdemeanants convicted for serious offences, the expenses of witnesses at Assizes and Sessions, the increase of the Salaries of the Schoolmasters in Workhouses, and in the Half Medical Relief in Poor Law Unions.
 MR. DAWSON  said, that as he must consider the answer of the right hon. Gentleman as so far unsatisfactory as regarded the Half Medical Relief aid, he would, on the Motion of the adjournment of the House from Friday next till Monday, call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to the concluding paragraph in the Report of last year's Committee.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that when he brought in the Ecclesiastical Commission Bill he stated that it was his intention to confine it exclusively to points which did not appear likely to provoke any controversy, and subsequently he expressed his readiness to abandon those Clauses of the Bill which were calculated to invite debate. Now, no notice had been given of any amendments upon the Clauses; but a long series of new Clauses had been proposed, which would in fact amount to a Bill, on many disputed and controverted points—which it was desirable to avoid. Under these circumstances, seeing no prospect of the House being able to agree to a
 769
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, I agree in part of what has fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, and even if I differed from some of his opinions to a greater extent than I do, still I should feel that as he must be bound to some extent by the course of those who preceded him in office under circumstances of a very unusual description, he is entitled not merely to forbearance
 790 791 792 793 794 795 ad misericordiam, 796 797 798 799 800 maximum 801
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, the hon. Gentleman owed no apology to the Committee for addressing them on a subject to which he had paid much attention for so many years past, and on several points he agreed very much with what the hon. Gentleman had said. He did not think, however, that there was any foundation for the complaint that the Secretary of State for India had confined himself to a dry statement of figures, as it was but a short time ago since the noble Lord who preceded him in office had entered into a very able and comprehensive statement with regard to all those questions of public policy which the hon. Member himself had brought before the House to-night, and the present question was essentially a financial one; he would, however, touch upon a few of the points to which the hon. Gentleman had adverted. He agreed with the hon. Gentleman that the Governor General was overworked, and that it was impossible for him to give his attention to all the matters submitted to him. That would probably explain why there had been no answer to the despatch in reference to the annexation of Dhar. A further despatch had, however, been recently sent out to India. The hon. Gentleman alluded to the frequent changes of office passed through before a civil servant attained high office in India. The recommendation in Mr. Rickett's report that salaries should be personal and not attached to the office merely, would probably meet many of the objections on that point; but the hon. Gentleman must recollect that much the same thing happened in this country, as most of the persons who held posts of great political importance here had passed through a great variety of offices. With respect to the Government of India, one change at least of great importance had been announced to-night—the union of the finance and revenue departments under a Member of Council appointed from this country to take charge of them both. That arrangement might be expected to confer great benefit on Indian administration. The hon. Gentleman was not quite accurate in say-
 824 825 826 827
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  said, he regretted that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State had not dwelt more on the general question of the Government of India. He seemed to differ from the noble Lord his predecessor on some points; amongst others, with regard to the expediency of the sale of the fee simple of the land, as proposed by Sir C. Trevelyan. In his (Mr. Seymour's) opinion that was a most useful proposal, and if carried into effect at Madras with success, he trusted the Government of India would depart from its usual course, and not allow the change to be confined to the district for twenty years. Some years ago a great improvement was effected in Chittagong, by the substitution of oral pleadings in the
 828 829 830 831 Geo. 832
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he should object to the Bill being proceeded with after twelve o'clock. There was a strong feeling against the Bill.
 MR. WHITESIDE  remarked, that he could not see why the Bill might not be considered. The object of the Bill was to remove a clause which was inserted in the Settled Estates Act for no other purpose than to prevent one English gentleman—Sir Thomas Wilson—from ever applying to be heard in a court of justice. The reason assigned for directing such a clause against Sir Thomas Wilson was that he intended to enclose Hampstead Heath; the fact being that he no more intended to enclose that heath than he did to enclose the moon. He had a letter from Sir Thomas Wilson, disclaiming any intention of build-
 838
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the memory of the right hon. and learned Gentleman was singularly inaccurate in relation to this subject. In the first place, Sir Thomas Wilson was excluded from building upon the heath by express prohibition in the settlement by his father's will. [Mr. WHITESIDE and Mr. MALINS: No, no.] At any rate, his intention to build on the heath was pretty plainly indicated by his petition for Parliamentary powers to enable him to do so, which was, however, refused. The right hon. Gentleman also forgot that he (Sir R. Bethell) co-operated with him in carrying out the views which he had previously expressed. He (Sir R. Bethell) had proposed the clause only as an exponent of other persons; personally, he was sorry that the clause was inserted in the Bill. He was glad to hear from the right hon. Gentleman so express a disclaimer of intention on the part of Sir Thomas Wilson to build on Hampstead Heath,
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  seconded the Motion, which was agreed to without a division.
 MR. COWPER , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to extend the provisions of the Metropolitan Police Act, for the prevention of obstructions from advertisements in the highways, stated he did not intend to press the Bill, as it was not likely to be carried at this period of the Session.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he thought that the right hon. Gentleman (Sir G. Grey) had correctly laid down the rule, but that where there was anything tangible to show that a considerable amount of corruption had been practised, the House ought to oppose the issuing of the writ. He differed from those who complained that the law of agency was too loose. It ought to be loose. Where a number of agents busied themselves in an election they usually had good reason for being busy.
 MR. KINNAIRD  regretted that the Government had resolved to refuse to India the temporary assistance of an Imperial guarantee. India had been the source of great advantage to this country; the Secretary of State admitted that her resources were elastic, and yet she was not to receive that small aid which was readily granted to the West India Islands in a moment of difficulty. Every one acknowledged that a guarantee must ultimately be given. Why not, then, give it at once, and so by a bold policy meet a temporary evil? He regretted that when a Governor General was wanted for India, Ministers should send out a man who knew nothing of that country, for such a man was at the mercy of his council for two or three years at least, and only became acquainted with the duties of his position about the time he was removed from it. The question of the finances of India was one that would brook no delay, and he hoped that with a deficit staring them in the face measures would be adopted to balance the income and expenditure. He was persuaded that the thing not only ought to be done, but that it could be done, if right measures were adopted. To say what those measures were, required a man of vast experience, and one who possessed an aptitude for finance. He had no hesitation in declaring his firm conviction that such a man existed if only scope were given to
 835
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he agreed in thinking that the writ ought to issue. This was the first case since the Committees sat, and he hoped it would guide the House. The distinction made by the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster was the only true and sound one, for it would be a serious evil if, in cases where there was no report that the bribery was general, the House should be troubled with these discussions. The hon. and learned Member for Sheffield had accused hon. Members, sworn at the table to do justice, of hypocrisy in not finding the Members themselves guilty of bribery. It was quite sufficient for any one to be accused of an offence for the hon. and learned Member to pronounce him guilty. An Election Committee, however, required proof of such a charge. The hon. and learned Member was too fond of accusing others, and too ready to believe them guilty. He believed that if any hon. Member stood up and declared the hon. and learned Gentleman to be guilty of acrimony, injustice, and unfairness, the hon. and learned Gentleman, however unjust the charge might be, would be ready to believe it of himself. He (Mr. Bouverie) thought it most undesirable to make the House a court of appeal against the decisions of Election Committees. The real source of the evil was the loose law of agency, by which persons often innocently committed acts which were deemed illegal, involving the sitting Members in the responsibility of those acts, although they might be entirely ignorant of them.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he also had on the paper the following notice of Motion,—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, stating that in the opinion of this House it would be consistent neither with the honour nor the dignity of this Country, which throughout the late negotiations has preserved a strict and impartial neutrality between the contending Powers, and used its earnest endeavours to prevent the outbreak of hostilities, to take part in any Conference for the purpose of settling the details of a Peace, the preliminaries of which have been arranged between the Emperor of the French and the Emperor of Austria,"
 MR. LIDDELL  said, the attention of the Government ought to be directed to this Vote, which had grown and was growing to an enormous amount. He trusted that they would not only stop its growth but reduce it to a proper size.
 LORD ASHLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to suspend further proceedings with regard to Submarine Telegraph Contracts until the Report of the Select Committee now sitting upon the Packet and Telegraphic Service is laid upon the Table of the House.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that in consequence of an answer which was re-
 748 749
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he wished to know whether the Government intended to issue Commissions to inquire into the election proceedings of those constituencies among whom the Election Committees reported that extensive bribery had prevailed. With regard to the Gloucester eleciton, bribery was proved to a considerable extent before the Election Committee, and through that Committee, of which he was a member, reported unanimously that it was not proved that the sitting Members had any cognizance of the same, he hardly felt his conscience discharged by that decision, for the report of that Committee fell far short of the truth. What happened at Gloucester was this:—One of those low party agents, the necessity and disgrace of every party, went down from London with a large sum of money and bribed from one end of the city of Gloucester to the other, employing for that purpose a great number of local agents. The sitting Members were perfectly ignorant of this, and the first knowledge they had of the system of bribery was from the evidence of the witnesses called before the Election Committee. He was told that the same was the case with regard to the Norwich election, and he must say that the hardship inflicted upon the candidates by these agents was enormous. Let the candidates take all the precautions which human ingenuity could devise, and yet they were not secure, on account of party agents from London being sent down to the different constituencies. Those agents did not care one straw what happened afterwards to the Member. All they wanted was his vote on the first party division after the House met. He trusted the Government would issue Commissions of inquiry in such cases as he had alluded to, and that their attention would be particularly directed to the organized system of bribery which emanated from associations and clubs in London. [ A cry of 751
 MR. LEFROY  said, that as Chairman of the Dartmouth Committee, he wished to make one or two remarks. Seven or eight witnesses had been examined, and it was proved that some voters absented themselves, or had accepted money—these cases amounted to three or four at the utmost. The Committee proceeded no further, all defence of the seat having been abandoned. No proof of general corruption, however, having been given, the Committee did not think it necessary to order the evidence to be printed. The House had the case before them, and the Committee did not wish to take an active part on one side or the other.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD , in reply, said, he was much obliged to the Committee for the reception given to his statement. With regard to the remarks of his hon. Friend (Mr. Bright), he could not think he was open to censure for not having expressed his views upon almost every conceivable subject connected with India. It had seemed to him that he was best consulting the wishes of the House, at this time of the Session, by confining his statement to the finances of India, which certainly afforded sufficiently wide scope for debate. It was surely unnecessary to repeat the discussion which took place earlier in the Session on the general condition of India, especially when he felt that he had not been long enough in office to be quite aware of all that was going on in his department. The noble Lord (Lord Stanley) had stated that a sum of £6,000,000 was to be raised by railway debentures in the current year. That was a slight error. It was true that £6,000,000 were to be raised for railway purposes, but of this £3,500,000 would be raised by calls upon the shareholders, and only about £2,500,000 by debentures. The hon. Member for Birmingham said that he represented the debt of India at £100,000,000. Now the debt was so large already that no one need exaggerate its amount. It was not however quite so bad as this. What he had said was, that before we were finally clear of the charges entailed by the mutiny the debt of India would amount to upwards of £100,000,000. This estimate, of course, included the sum which we should have to borrow next year, and probably in the course of the year following. With regard to Sir Charles Trevelyan, he could assure the Committee that he had no indisposition to support him in the very useful reforms which he would, no doubt, introduce into the Presidency. Sir C. Trevelyan and he were old friends. On previous occasions he had had to defend him against unfounded attacks. Sir Charles Trevelyan would no doubt bring great knowledge and great zeal to bear upon the administration of affairs in Madras, and if he only tempered his zeal with discretion he would he a most
 837
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : It has often been my duty to address the House upon questions of great national importance, and more than once upon the subject of India; but I confess I never addressed it under feelings of such deep responsibility as those under which I now rise to bring before the Committee the state of India, more especially in reference to its finances. I do not think that my hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham overstated the importance of this subject, when he told us the other night that it was hardly second to those questions of domestic and foreign policy which have occupied our attention for the last two months. When we consider not only how important India is to England, but the many millions in that country who now own the sway of the British Sovereign, and as to whom we have undertaken the solemn duty of providing good Government, I do not think it possible to overrate the task which is imposed upon the Government and the Parliament of this country. It is not my intention, however, upon the present occasion to go into general questions concerning the state or welfare of India. Her financial prospects are grave enough to occupy the attention both of Government and of Parliament, and certainly no deeper responsibility was ever imposed upon either. It will need all the wisdom and all the energy which the Government can bring to the consideration of the subject; it will require all the aid and support which I doubt not they will receive from Parliament to deal properly with a matter of such vital importance. It is not necessary for me to remind the Committee of what vital importance to all countries the state of their finances is. If their financial state be good, there are few dangers which they may not confidently hope to overcome; if their financial state be bad, there are few dangers with which they can effectually cope. I need not say, because I am convinced that every one who hears
 770 771 772 s. s. s. s. 773 774 a primâ facie 775 maximum 776 777 778 779 780 "The mutiny had its origin in the army itself; that it is not attributable to any external or any antecedent conspiracy whatever, although it was afterwards taken advantage of by disaffected persons to compass their own ends, and that its proximate cause was the cartridge affair and nothing else." 781 782 "It seems to me principally, if not wholly, a question of finance. Our income is limited and capable of little rapid extension; large portions of it are very precarious. We cannot long go on borrowing. It is necessary to our existence that we should bring our expenses, of which the military charges are the heaviest portion, within our income. Even in a military point of view the value of a surplus income, good credit, and a contented Native population, which needs no large force to keep it from rising, is greater to us in India than that of a powerful and well prepared army. Give us the former and time, and we must, with our naval superiority and vast mechanical resources, always be a fair match for any enemy, whether internal or external, that can assail us. But if we have a deficient income, low credit, and discontented classes among our own subjects, the largest and best appointed army will only precipitate our downfall. Time will then befriend our enemies, who will have only to force us to keep our army up to a war standard in time of peace, in order to insure our ultimately ruining ourselves by costly victories. This is not the place to dwell on the political and social questions affecting the feeling of our subjects towards our Government, further than to note that no army we could possibly maintain, if our own pecuniary resources were double what they are, could enable us long to hold the country if any large classes once become convinced that there are other Governments possible which would be preferable to ours, and to introduce which it is worth their while to make some present sacrifice. Hence it is necessary, in answering the present question, always to bear in mind that we must bring our expenses within our income, and that the vital question is not, what do we want to insure our perfect safety, but what can we afford to spend for defence, and how can we lay it out to the best advantage?" "I have now to request your earnest attention to the object of relieving the drain upon your resources by avoiding all expenditure which is either not absolutely necessary, or which can be postponed without serious detriment to the public service. It appears that until our finances are
 783 784 785 786
 MR. C. FORTESCUE  said, he could assure the Committee that he had every reason to believe that the expenditure of these grants had been attended with great advantages. The natives were employed in industrial pursuits, they were receiving wages for their labour, and the consequence had been that during the Russian war and the Indian mutiny this country had not been called upon to bear the additional burden of a war in Kaffraria. The Vote was last year diminished by £20,000, but it was stated by the Governor that sufficient notice had not been given of the reduction of the grant to enable him to cut down the expenses, and therefore the Vote of £40,000 was now proposed, but without any intention of asking for a similar Vote next year.
 LORD FERMOY  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce, in the next Session of Parliament, any measure dealing with the subject of the Endowed Schools, and of Intermediate Education generally, in Ireland.
 LORD FERMOY  said, that although the legal evidence might be deficient, he thought that the House was warranted in assuming that a great deal of bribery had been practised at the last election for Dartmouth. The Committee had been prevented from investigating the matter thoroughly by the
 843
 MR. CARDWELL  said, the noble Lord was well aware of the difficulties attending the general question of Education in Ireland; no portion of it presented greater difficulties than the subject of intermedial
 767
 MR. CARDWELL  was understood to reply that he had received notice from the
 768
 MR. CARDWELL  said, the Report of Mr. Macleod recommended that the Schools of the Royal Hibernian Academy should be united to those of the Royal Dublin Society. That had since been done. A correspondence then took place between the Academy and the Government in reference to the continuance of the Grant for other purposes. The Academy asked for £500. The Government expressed their willingness to give £300. No conclusion had been arrived at, and therefore no Vote was proposed in the Estimates.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  observed, that this Vote had been postponed in order that the Government might inform the Committee whether the damages and costs recovered in the courts of law in cases questioning the decisions of the inspectors had been defrayed from the public Exchequer, or by the local Boards which had acted under the authority of the inspectors. He had received a letter from a gentleman who was formerly a member of that House (Sir J. Tyrell), stating that, with the sanction of inspectors acting under this Board, the sewage of Chelmsford had been turned into a river which ran past his residence three miles from that town, and that he suffered most severely from the nuisance. He (Mr. James) thought the Committee ought to be informed whether the damages and costs in the cases to which he had referred had been defrayed by the inhabitants by local rates, whether they had been paid by the inspectors, or whether they were charged upon the Exchequer.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, he believed that the law officers of the Crown had a good deal to do with respect to patents, and nothing would be more disastrous than that people should get patents for all sorts of things without any proper investigation.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, this Vote included an item of £2,361 for the Statute Law Consolidation Commission. It appeared from a note appended to the Estimate that an additional expenditure would be requisite for fees to draughtsmen employed to draw bills, the amount awarded for that purpose in the year 1858 having been £1,300. The Commission was appointed in 1854, and he believed that up to the present moment they had literally done nothing towards the consolidation or improvement of the statute law of England, but that, on the contrary, they had been an incubus upon and an impediment to any attempt at amendment, for, whenever attempts were made by private or official Members of that House to consolidate the criminal statute law, they were always told that a Commission existed which was dealing with the subject. The late Attorney General for Ireland (Mr. Whiteside), while he was in office, applied himself to the amendment and consolidation of a very large portion of the criminal statutes; but when he laid the results of his labours upon the table of the House, the Attorney General for England stated that a consolidation of the statute law was already in progress, and that they must wait and see what was the result of the proceedings of the existing Commission. Before the late Attorney General for Ireland placed his Bills upon the table the late Attorney General for England (Sir F. Kelly) expressed his readiness to bring forward Bills for the consolidation of the criminal law in England; but nothing came of the proposal, nor was it likely that anything would be done so long as they bad a Commissioner at £1,000 a year nursing the old statutes. The Attorney General had said, in answer to the right hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Mr. Whiteside), "Leave the matter to me, not to the Commission; and I will undertake myself to produce early next Session some measures for the consolidation of the statutes;" so that the Attorney General had taken upon himself the labours of the Statute Law Commission. Why, then, he asked, was it necessary to continue that Commission?
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, he understood that the hon. and learned Attorney General had stated, that between this and next Session he would prepare certain consolidated Bills. That hon. and learned Gentleman did not want this Statute Law Commission, and if he needed assistance, no doubt the House would be prepared to pay for it afterwards under the head of Civil Contingencies. The Committee ought to get rid of this Commission altogether by getting rid of the item.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he did not see, as the Government had undertaken to do away with the Commissioner, what was the use of maintaining the body after the head was cut off.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he should be glad to know what course the Government intended to pursue with regard to the Bill for amending the law relating to real estate; and also as to the Bill for the relief of trustees. The latter measure was promised two years ago, and it would be a great improvement of the law. A full opportunity ought, however, to be given for considering it, and therefore he should like to know whether it was intended that it should be passed this Session or not.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, these old laws were of the highest value to those who took an interest in Ireland. He thought the money was well spent.
 MR. BRADY  said, the Harbours of Refuge Commission had already cost £3,000. He wished to know whether it was true that the bottom of the harbour at Holyhead was of solid rock, as he understood that anchors were of no use there.
 MR. BRADY  said, he wished to call attention to the expenses a poor man of genius was put to for obtaining a patent. The consequence frequently was, that he was obliged to sell his invention to some wealthy person, who thus obtained nearly nil the reward which should belong to the inventor. There were a number of officers and clerks attached to the Patent Office, and their allowances occasioned the expense in obtaining patents. There was also a sum of £8,300 in the Vote payable to the law officers of the Crown in England. He had no objection to the law officers being properly paid, but he objected to their being paid in this way. They ought not to be paid out of the pockets of the poor man. He had no hesitation in saying, that it was a tax on the intellect of the poor, and therefore he felt it his duty to propose that the Vote should not be agreed to.
 MR. BRADY  observed that at present there was scarcely a day passed without litigation of the most serious character being carried on with regard to patents.
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I have so often addressed the House upon the question of India that I feel some hesitation in asking a portion of the time of the Committee
 802 803 804 805 806 807 808 809 810 811 812 813 Friend of India Friend of India "Sir C. Trevelyan relies doubtless on Lord Stanley, and we do not dream of denying that the Secretary of State has provocation enough to excuse the unusual course he seems obliged to pursue. To send a reform to Calcutta is, at present, simply to lay it aside. It will probably not even be answered for two years, certainly not carried in five. Even when sanctioned, it will have to pass through a crucible through which no plan can escape entire. That weary waiting for Calcutta, of which all men, from Lord Stanley to the people of Singapore, now bitterly complain, may well tempt the Secretary to carry on his plans by the first mode offered to his hand." 814 History of India, 815 816 817 818 prestige, 819 "Not less than 7,000 Natives of all ranks and conditions and religions flocked to the esplanade at Tellicherry, where there was no show but the parading of a company of Sepoys, who fired a  feu de joie 820 821 822 823
 MR. BRISCOE  said, this estimate showed the carelessness in which Estimates were prepared by the Government.
 MR. COBBETT  said, he hoped that if the question could not now be answered it would be repeated, so that a satisfactory reply might be obtained. The measure was a most important one.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland whether any and what steps have been taken to effect certain reforms in the administration of the Royal Hibernian Academy, and why there was no Vote in the Estimates this year for the Academy.
 MR. ROEBUCK : I understand that several applications for the Chiltern Hundreds are about to be made to the noble Lord at the head of the Government by hon. Gentlemen who have been petitioned against on the ground of bribery, but I trust that any applications on the part of persons who seek in this way to escape exposure before a Committee will not be acceded to. Some time ago the public were warned that great corruption had been practised by Gentlemen sitting on these the Opposition benches; but I am sorry to say that, by discoveries recently made, it has been found that corruption has taken place on that the Ministerial side of the House; and the remarkable feature of the case is, that noble Lords and right hon. Gentlemen are sitting on the benches opposite in consequence; for I believe that pretty nearly the whole
 840
 MR. WISE  said, that in 1855 a Committee of that House had very properly acceded to the request of Sir George Grey, the governor of the colony, by granting £40,000 for this purpose, and it was understood that the grant should be continued for three years. Last year the Treasury considered that the time had arrived for a reconsideration of the Vote, but at the suggestion of a noble Lord opposite a grant of £20,000 was agreed to, in order that no inconvenience might result from the sudden cessation of aid which had heretofore been afforded. They had already spent £415,000 for this object, including the removal and settlement of the German Legion. In 1857 their imports from British Kaffraria were £41,000, last year they were only £13,000. The exports in 1857 were £79,000, last year they were only £8,900. He wished, therefore, to know whether the objects contemplated in 1855—the establishment of industrial schools, of educational institutions, and of hospitals had been attended with the anticipated results, and whether the Kaffirs evinced any disposition to abandon their warlike pursuits, and to yield to the influence of civilization and Christianity.
 766
 MR. WISE  said, that as the paid Commissioner was to be abolished, the best course would be to wind up the whole affair and make a fresh start on this subject, and that if the Government nominated two or three first-rate lawyers to perform the duty of consolidating the statutes, and
 759
 MR. WISE  said, he could not Vote for the Amendment of the hon. Member for Lambeth; for if these fees were abolished, other provision must be made for the law officers.
 MR. WISE  said, he would ask what was the use, if a paid Commissioner was not to be appointed, of voting his salary of £1,000? When Sir R. Peel consolidated the statutes he required no Commission.
 MR. WISE. —No; the item of £2,361 for the Statute Law Commission.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he could not help expressing his concurrence to a certain extent with the sanguine view which the right hon. Gentleman (Sir Charles Wood) had taken of India prospectively, but he thought that in his statement he had overlooked one important feature, namely, that there were at present about £7,000,000 of India bonds in existence, the owners of which had the option of being redeemed by giving a year's notice. There had also been placed upon the market within the last year about £13,000,000 of debentures, which would come in course of payment in the years 1863 and 1864. So that, on the whole, a sum of about £20,000,000 of debt would have to be provided for in the course of the next four or five years. He could hardly, therefore, concur altogether with the expression of satisfaction with which the right hon. Gentleman had concluded his speech. He would also like to have heard in what manner the right hon. Gentleman proposed to raise the £5,000,000 which were now asked for. It was to be hoped the mode intended to be adopted was not by way of debentures, an expedient which many practical authorities on that question were convinced would prove a failure. The debenture market, as far as India was concerned, was overdone. The public did not regard debentures favourably enough as a means of investment to enable the right hon. Gentleman to depend upon such a source. A great many of the principal holders of money were absent from the tenders for the last Indian loan, a great portion of which was taken up by the gentlemen of the Stock Exchange and private gentlemen; but they were bitten on that occasion, and were not likely to come forward again. With regard to the increase of the customs duties in India, he was perfectly prepared to admit that there was no more legitimate mode of raising resources in times of diffi-
 787 788 789
 MR. GREGSON  said, he agreed with the noble Lord the Member for Lynn that a tax upon tobacco would be an exceedingly undesirable mode of increasing the revenue of India. It was tried a few years ago, and failed. He could not but thank the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for not having proposed an Imperial guarantee, which would be very unfair to those who had already lent us money. He thought that some reduction might be made in the military expenditure, but condemned the proposal to increase the duty upon salt. It was not justified by the paltry increase of £300,000 which was all that was expected from it. Considering the difference in the value of money in the two countries, and the elasticity of the resources of India, he thought a higher rate of interest might be given than that at which the last loan was raised. The Bank of India were paying 9 per cent; therefore 4, 5, or even 6 per cent was a moderate rate of interest for an Indian loan. In this view the rate of interest upon the Indian debt was not, in his opinion, greater than that which we paid at home.
 MR. LAING  said, if any economy could be introduced into this department of the Estimates, it should have his best attention.
 MR. LAING  said, that the course the hon. Gentleman proposed would defeat his own object, for his Motion, if carried, would prove an injury instead of a benefit to the poor inventor. The expenses of obtaining a patent were by the change in the law greatly reduced. The registration Court and the Museum had proved of the greatest utility, for nothing was more important for a humble man, before going to the expense of taking out a patent, than to ascertain whether a similar patent had been registered beforehand. It was mainly to establish a machinery for this purpose that the expense for the Patent Offices was rendered necessary. The fees now fixed were on the lowest rate, simply rendering the office self-supporting. The question concerning the law officers of the Crown was discussed very much last year, and it was then very clearly shown that the fees they received were not mere honorary fees, but every patent which passed through their hands involved points respecting the rights of the Crown, on which it was necessary that the Crown should take the opinion of the law officers, and if a charge were made, according to the usual rate of professional fees, that charge would be larger than the one that appeared in the present Vote.
 MR. LAING  said, the money was required to keep in order roads in poor districts. The money was formerly taken out of the Excise receipts, but under the new system the Vote came under the notice of Parliament.
 MR. LAING  said, the amount was really expended in the support of a school of design in Edinburgh.
 MR. LAING  observed, that the law officers had to give their opinion on the legality of patents before the seal was put to them, and it was of importance to the industry of the country, and to poor inventors as well, that the records of the Patent-office should not be filled up with a number of patents of doubtful validity occasioning difficulties and litigation.
 MR. LAING  said, propositions for reducing the Vote were now under the consideration of the Treasury.
 MR. LAING  said, the Commissioners were not paid, and they merely asked for a small sum for printing these old, valuable, and historical documents.
 MR. LAING  replied that lighthouses for local purposes were paid for by colonial funds, except in case of a new colony, such as British Columbia. In places where there were no local funds, and lighthouses had to be erected upon barren rocks—as was the case with the majority of those for which the Vote was asked—for the protection of our own shipping and the shipping of the world, the national fund was clearly the only one available. At Ceylon lighthouses were paid for locally, except with regard to those
 765
 MR. LAING  said, he was satisfied that no such mercenary motives could justly be imputed to our naval officers and sailors on the African coast; but it was well known that if they captured as slavers vessels on board of which no negroes were found, there were great difficulties as to the condemnation of such ships, and they ran the risk of being involved in expensive legal proceedings.
 MR. LAING  said, that as to the last point he might state that as the Government could not tell how much would be required for the Commissions no Estimates could be formed. The money was taken from Civil Contingencies and then replaced after the Votes were granted. Nothing would be done in reference to Harbours of Refuge until after the House had had the
 755
 MR. LAING  said, that since the previous discussion, he had caused a careful search to be made in the Treasury, and not the slightest trace could be found of any public money having been applied to such purposes as those to which the hon. and learned Gentleman referred, or of any claims of such a nature having been made upon the Treasury. He presumed, therefore, that the damages must have been paid by the local Boards out of the rates.
 MR. LAING  said, as the discussion of the question would require the presence of his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for War he would communicate with him, and would in the course of the evening state when it would be convenient to bring the subject on.
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he could not but complain of the readiness exhibited by the late Government in issuing a Commission to inquire into the Sale of Liquors in Scotland, which had cost the country a £1,000. On the other hand, he might state that the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the "Metropolitan Tolls" had done their duty, and proved themselves to be men of business.
 MR. HALIBURTON  said, that the contribution of this country of £400 towards the expenses of the establishment at Sable Island, Nova Scotia, for the relief of persons shipwrecked was wise and proper. The coast there was one of the most exposed on the whole American Coast. Formerly no Government owned Sable Island, but in consequence of wreckers having taken possession of it for the purpose of causing shipwrecks, the Government of Nova Scotia embraced it within their jurisdiction, and provided the other moiety of £400. There had been numerous wrecks on that coast, and he thought this a humane and excellent provision, and one which could not be withdrawn.
 MR. HANKEY  deprecated the middle course which the Government were taking by leaving matters as they were. The existence, by a legal fiction of the East India Company, which might easily have been abolished altogether, alone prevented the Indian Council from borrowing money in any part of the world. So long, therefore, as it was necessary to come to Parliament every year and ask for a special Vote in order that money might be borrowed for India the people of this country would be-
 836
 THE CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER  said, he had stated on a former occasion that it was the intention of the Government to suspend generally all proceedings with respect to Packet Contracts until the Committee should have had an opportunity of considering them; and undoubtedly the Government entertained the same intention with respect to Submarine Telegraph Contracts. The House would understand that he made that answer generally, but it was possible that circumstances might arise under which a case of exception might be created. Something must, of course, depend upon the time which the Committee might occupy in their investigations, and there was one matter—namely, the manufacture of a submarine cable—with regard to which it may be necessary for the Government to take measures before the Committee made their Report. As a general rule, however, so far as the Government could see their way, it was their intention to take no proceedings upon the subject of the Submarine Telegraph until after the Committee had prepared their Report.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he did not know what communication had taken place between the noble Lord and the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, and could not reply to the question in his absenee. He could not say when the Committee of Supply would terminate. His hope was from the present appearance of the Votes, the Supply would end on Thursday. His noble Friend (Lord Elcho) would not be prejudiced by the circumstance, for if there should not be a Committee of Supply on Thursday, there would be a Report on some other stage which would enable him to bring his Motion forward.
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he had no doubt that gentlemen who had houses in the vicinity of moving streams were greatly
 753
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, there was an ample military force in the Cape when the German Legion went there. He objected to this Vote of £40,000, and should take the sense of the Committee upon it.
 MR. CONINGHAM  remarked, that he also regretted that an Imperial guarantee had not been given, by which an enormous sum of money would he saved hereafter. He trusted that on fuller consideration the right hon. Gentleman would adopt a course which alone could lead to the permanent restoration of our authority and prestige in India.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to call attention to the fact that the total amount of this Vote was £33,275, and that the increase upon the Vote of last year was no less than £28,873. He thought that careful attention should be paid to the objects of these Commissions, and that the House should not be too ready to grant public money for their maintenance. He might instance especially the Commission relating to the laws of Jersey, which had cost no less than £6,000, almost the value of the island.
 COLONEL SYKES : Why is it not stated so distinctly in the Estimates?
 COLONEL SYKES  observed, that there would be a surplus of £20,000 next year on the £68,500, which was likely to be raised from the inventive intellect of the country. He hoped that some of this money would be applied to reduce the stamp duty, and the other expenses which debarred the poor man from bringing out his invention.
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he was glad to hear that the right hon. Baronet did not intend to reduce the salaries of the present incumbents of the civil service. Now that India had become an integral portion of the British Empire, we required the introduction of a new system and a greater number of civil functionaries with reduced jurisdictions in the Mofussil— i. e. 833 "If I had power and influence I would proclaim through the length and breadth of this land, from the Himalayas to Cape Comorin, from the Behmapootra to the Bay of Cambay, that never were the Natives more grievously mistaken than they have been in adopting the notion, foisted upon them by designing and ambitious men, that their religion was at stake, for that notion I believe to be at the root of the late rebellion. They do not understand the generosity, the benevolence of the governing Power, the evenhanded justice with which that Power is willing and anxious always to do that which is right between man and man, without any reference whatever to the fact whether the men belonged to the governing or to the governed class."
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the amount received by the law officers of the Crown out of the inventive genius of the country amounted to the extraordinary sum of
 762
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  remarked that he could not understand why the public should be taxed to keep these roads in repair.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, it was a most
 763
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, two years ago a promise was given that this Vote should be discontinued.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he thought the local towns who received the benefit of the Act should pay the expense of the Board.
 Mr. W. WILLIAMS  said, that the money of eight of the items in this Vote had been drawn from "Civil Contingencies," and consequently the sums would be voted twice.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he must complain of the increase of £1,385 in this Vote over the Vote of last year, occasioned by an increase for clerks' and inspectors' salaries, and for increased travelling and personal expenses. The sum of £2,600 for inspectors' salaries was enormous, and there ought to be some explanation in regard to them.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he had the following notice on the paper:—
 "That under the present circumstances it is not necessary or expedient to carry into effect the recent Order for despatching 6,700 Men to India from the Depôts of Regiments serving in India." 747
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, that there ought to be branch patent offices in Dublin and Edinburgh, fie was disposed to agree in the Motion of the hon. Member for Lambeth. The Crown lawyers ought to be paid and well paid, but they ought not to be paid at the expense of the poor inventor.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  remarked, that he had not heard any reason assigned by the
 841 Vict,
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, the stigma formerly attaching to the name of British officers and sailors in this service did not now exist. Great indulgence ought to be shown to men who were wasting their lives on a troublesome duty, without hope of promotion by the Board of Admiralty.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that the House was to blame for the condition in which the statute law now stood. When hon. Members brought in amending Bills they ought, instead of repealing this or that enactment, to consolidate the whole matter. Let dead and useless statutes be repealed, and if, as was once said, the statute law could be reduced to four volumes, that would indeed be a great advantage to the country.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he thought that what the Attorney General had undertaken to do was more likely to be well done than if executed by this Commission. It was not certain that that learned Gentleman would require the assistance which had been spoken of, but if he did, no doubt it would be granted to him.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he intended to give notice of a Motion, that in the case of Members unseated for bribery no new writ should issue until the House had an opportunity of considering the evidence upon which the election had been declared void.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he was of opinion that some more efficient check ought to be placed upon the proceedings of the inspectors. He knew nothing of those gentlemen beyond this—that they had generally shown complete ignorance of the commonest rudiments of sanitary drainage, and he thought therefore that they ought to be subjected to some controlling power.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, the notice he had given of a Motion that no new Writ should be issued in case of a return declared void on the ground of bribery, until the House should have considered the evidence given before the Committee had no reference to this or any particular case; but he thought it was the duty of the House to be cautious in issuing a Writ in such cases. He, therefore, moved that the Writ for the borough of Dartmouth should be suspended till the House had considered the evidence on which the decision of the Committee was founded.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. PALK  said, he believed that no borough had been purer than Dartmouth hitherto, and a few isolated cases of bribery
 842
 MR. PALK  said, he rose to move that a Writ be issued for the election of a Member for the borough of Dartmouth in the room of Mr. E. W. H. Schenley, whose election had been declared void.
 MR. PALK  observed, that the expenses under this head appeared to have increased very considerably, and he wished to know what duties in London were discharged by the inspectors and clerks. He was of opinion that the Vote might be reduced.
 MR. CAVE  said, he wished to call attention to the objectionable principle con-
 764
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, this was not a very important question. He had received letters stating that sometimes inconvenience did occasionally arise, and it was thought by some that the heads of the county police should be called "Commissioners." By introducing that title they would not be introducing anything new, for it was now used in several cases where
 852
 MR. HENLEY  opposed the clause. It was almost absurd that the Committee should be discussing such a question. He thought it would be better to change the title of the Chief of the Borough Police to that of "Head Constable."
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, as the point involved was of no great importance, he would suggest to the hon. Gentleman to withdraw the Amendment. Although he (Sir G. Lewis) was rather favourable to the proposed alteration, nevertheless as it had provoked so many objections, it was not worth while to sacrifice more of their time by discussing the matter.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he would assent to the Amendment, upon the understanding that the hon. Gentleman would move a new clause.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he did not agree with his hon. Friend in considering the clause unnecessary, because there was an Act of Parliament in existence which required the employment of javelin-men by high sheriffs. In his opinion the clause would prove advantageous, because it would enable each county to determine for itself whether javelin-men should be employed, or whether they should he superseded by the police force.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that with reference to the observations of the hon. Member for Stafford (Mr. Wise), notice had certainly been given by an hon. Gentleman of his intention to move next Session for a Committee to make certain inquiries as to the office of high sheriff, but he was not aware that anything had been said on the part of the Government amounting to a pledge, or even an understanding, that such a Committee should be appointed. For his own part, he could not see that there was anything objectionable in the clause, which was merely permissive, and he apprehended that, under the existing law, chief constables would not have the power of placing the police under the orders of the high sheriffs.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that he was desirous of giving a fuller explanation
 855 856 bond fide
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that he intended to-morrow to move for leave to introduce a Bill to continue the exemption of Roman Catholic Charities from the jurisdiction of the Charity Commissioners.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  replied, that information had been for some time before the Government with respect to the riotous disposition of the Fishermen on the west coast of Scotland; but his right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate, whose attention had been directed to the matter, had reported that the Fishery Board were quite apprised of everything that was passing, and had taken all the precautions in their power to prevent a breach of the peace.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, with regard to the Police and Prisons Statistics, they were furnished from accounts which were made up annually for a year ending on the 29th of September, as that was the close of the official year in the Boroughs and Counties. The Commercial Statistics were made up to the close of the ordinary year on the 31st of December; but owing to the Winter Assizes there was always some delay in their preparation, but he trusted that in future they would always be ready before Easter. He might mention that our Criminal Statistics were published far in advance of those of other countries—France for example.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, his hon. Friend the Member for Pontefract had, he thought, done good service to his own country and to the community of the United States by bringing this subject under the consideration of the House, and he had stated with great distinctness the evils which arose from the existing state of things. He need hardly remind the House that the territorial law of this country was hardly competent to deal with the evils which had been brought before them. In the first place, this country could not, except by treaty, exercise any jurisdiction over crimes committed on board foreign ships upon the high seas. Their jurisdiction extended merely to crimes committed by foreign sailors on board foreign ships within three miles of the coast. Except within these limits the Crown of England had no power to exercise jurisdiction, and it was only by a ratified convention with the United States, or with any other Power, that this jurisdiction could arise. In the treaty concluded with the United States by Lord Ashburton in 1842 there was an article that stipulated for the mutual extradition of criminals. It included persons charged with murder, assaults with intent to murder, robbery, arson, forgery, and uttering forged papers. When a murder, or an assault with intent to murder, is committed on board an American ship on the high seas, it is by the construction of the law supposed to be committed on American territory. And if the ship put into an English port, and the offender were claimed through the American Minister, he would be delivered up and sent to America for trial. The expense incurred in sending the prisoner and the witnesses back to the United States to have the case investigated by the American courts would have to be paid by that Government. In practice it was found that this process was rarely carried into effect, and did not lead to the punishment of offenders. That, however, was the course under the present convention; and if it was not pursued the offender could not be made amenable, any more than if he had committed the same crime on the soil of the
 877 878
 MR. HENLEY  said, that this was a subject of no small importance, for no doubt within the last few years there had been many allegations of cruelty committed on board American ships. He wished that the hon. Gentleman who brought forward this Motion had told them whether many prosecutions had taken place for such crimes in the courts of the United States; for it was hardly possible that all the cruelty would be committed on the outward voyage and none on the voyage home to the States, and if it were committed on the voyage home there would be the American courts to appeal to on the ship going into port. The records of American courts might show what was the state of things and what view was taken of these crimes in America, and such information might go far to show how to remedy the evil, if evil existed. The Secretary for the Home Department had said, that it might be agreed that our stipendiary magistrates might deal with such cases, and that the American magistrates might deal with similar cases occurring on board our ships; and this might be all very well when American law and American courts only were in question; but if we came to this arrangement with America bow could we refuse to come to a similar arrangement with Austria, Russia, or Spain, and would the Government be willing to subject an Englishman who had committed an assault on the high seas to the tender mercies of the Russian police? He hoped that these allegations of cruelty on board American ships which had been made within the last two or three years, might have arisen from circumstances, from some cause or other, accidental, and that such things would not again be so much heard of. With regard to the question of Consuls dealing with these matters, there did not occur to his mind the same difficulty in carrying out that suggestion that there was in giving the courts of the two countries jurisdiction in such cases. The principal difficulty seemed to be that if the Consuls acted they must give the Consuls power to confine prisoners in their prisons. He did not think it necessary that they should act on the laws of the country in which they acted, but that they might administer the
 879
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the subject of the Motion had engaged the attention of the law officers, not only of the present Government, but of those which had gone before it. All attempts, however, to induce the Government of the United States to agree to any rules in respect to the matter had proved unsuccessful from the jealousy with which they guarded against any interference with the administration of their law. The proposition of the United States Government always had been that an American charged with an assault upon the high seas should, on his arrival in this country, be taken before an American Consul, who should be invested with criminal jurisdiction. To that proposition, however, he, as the law officer of the Crown, in conjunction with his colleagues, would offer a most strenuous opposition. He certainly never would be a party to any criminal jurisdiction being exercised in this country, except in the name of the Queen, and according to the laws of the country. The right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had adverted to the possibility of our being required to extend the same principle to Austria, Russia, and other States having arbitrary criminal laws if we entered into a treaty with the United States; but he (the Attorney General) did not think that that consequence would at all follow, because in the case of the United States the bargain that might be entered into would be in accordance with our inalienable claim to reciprocity of jurisdiction, and that involved the administration of a criminal law similar to our own, and founded on the same principles as our own. The Amerians had conventions with France on this subject, and the representations that had been made to the Government of the manner in which the authority established by those conventions was exercised would surprise the House, and would be a warning against the adoption of any similar rule in this country. Nothing was more common than for the captain of an American merchant vessel, on entering a French
 880
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, the opinion of the late Mr. Frederick Lucas was that those interested in Roman Catholic charities had, in his judgment, committed a mistake in assenting to a Bill exempting them from the law affecting the charities generally of the kingdom. He would support the hon. Member for Gateshead in his resistance to another Exemption Bill.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he believed there was a second petition before the House which had not been withdrawn, but it did not come under the cognizance of the Committee. It was still possible for the Committee to determine that the Gentleman who claimed the seat was entitled to it.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  suggested that the clause should be withdrawn, and a new clause drawn up.
 MR. E.P. BOUVERIE  remarked, that the change in name was a very small matter; still the name of constable was better known to the public, and constables had distinct rights and duties which should not be confounded with other names, for as Commissioners they would have no duties as such.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he had given notice of his intention to submit to the House on Thursday next a Motion having reference to the inexpediency of England's taking any part in the anticipated Congress of European Powers. Since he had given that notice, however, he had received a
 871
 MR. BLACK  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty if there is any regulation preventing the men in the Preventive Service, Inland Revenue, from
 865
 MR. FINLAY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department if he has received any official intimation of the probability of a riotous collision among the Herring Fishermen in Lochfyne, Argyllshire, in consequence of the systematic transgression of the Act 14th & 15th  Vic,
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the rights as claimed by the Crown and other bodies connected with the Foreshores, Tidal Rivers, Estuaries, and bed of the Sea round the coasts of the United Kingdom, the various proceedings instituted of late years by the officers of the Crown with respect to the same, and to ascertain and report to the House whether any and what legislation might be required for defining the said rights, and for securing and protecting those of the public and individuals. By way of premise he might remind the House that the object and importance of his Motion had been ably expressed two years ago by the Earl of Derby in "another place," when presenting a petition in "another place." His Lordship stated then that it was a subject of very great importance involving questions of a very serious and complicated character, affecting the right of the Crown to the land between high and low watermark throughout the kingdom, the extent of that right, and the manner in which it was enforced. No one disputed that there was a right in the Crown, of a certain kind, to the dominion of the land between high and low water-mark; but the question was, whether that was such a right to the soil as would entitle the Crown to make it a means of profit by way of lease, or whether it was not merely a power with which the Crown was invested as a trustee for the purpose of protecting the public in their use of it. This latter was certainly the whole extent to which the maxim of the civil law went; and something to the same effect appeared to be the law of England as it stood in the time of Henry III. Bracton seemed to have the idea that it would be
 882 dicta
 COLONEL TYNTE  said, that this was just what he had expected, although in this case, as in some others, the petitioners had thought proper not to withdraw their petition until the eleventh hour. He felt satisfied that if the inquiry bad been proceeded with, the petition would have turned out to be utterly frivolous and vexatious, and he believed that it had been got up against the wishes of the most respectable of his political opponents.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that six years ago he supported Sir Frederic Thesiger, now Lord Chelmsford, in his opposition to the clause which exempted the Roman Catholics of England from the operation of the general law as enacted in the Charitable Trusts Act of 1853. There were few higher authorities on all questions of this kind than the present Lord Chelmsford; and that learned personage declared emphatically that if those Roman Catholic charities ceased to be exempted from the general law no danger whatever could accrue to them. For there was no danger in
 861 862
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he rose to move the addition of the following clause:—
 "The high sheriff of any county may agree with the justices of the peace for such county for the employment of the police constables in lieu of javelin men at the assizes, and thereupon the chief constable, on the requisition of the high sheriff, shall place under his orders a sufficient number of such constables to keep order in and within the precinct of the Court of Assize, and upon such agreement being entered into as aforesaid, it shall be lawful for the high sheriff to discontinue the employment of javelin men.
 MR. HOWES  said, the reason he had moved the Amendment was to prevent the confusion and jealousies that existed between the county and borough police force.
 MR. HOWES  rose to move that the following clause be inserted after Clause 1:—
 "That Chief Constables appointed and to be appointed in counties, under the Acts of the 2nd & 3rd of  Vict., Vict., Vict.,
 MR. HOWES  said, he thought the alteration in style would avoid the great inconvenience which now prevailed, and that it would enable the county and borough police to work more in harmony together.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he rose to ask a question in connection with the late election for Norwich, but as it was a matter of privilege he should in any case be entitled to precedence. It would be in the recollection of the House that at the last general election two gentlemen, Mr. Schneider and Viscount Bury, were returned for that city. A petition for bribery was presented against both those gentlemen, one of whom, Viscount Bury, subsequently accepted office under the present Government. The attention of the House was expressly called to the inconvenience of issuing a new Writ while the petition against the former election was pending, but, nevertheless, it directed that a new Writ should be issued, and at the second election Viscount Bury was again returned. Two petitions were presented against that return, and they were referred to the Committee by whom the first petition was to be tried, but on the understanding that they were not to be proceeded with, so that in fact the only petition before the House was the original one presented against Viscount Bury and Mr. Schneider. The Committee to which that petition had been referred had decided that both those gentlemen had been guilty of bribery through their agents, and that consequently the original election was void. The question he wished to ask Mr. Speaker was this:—By the 36th section of the Corrupt Practices Act it was declared that no candidate who should be found guilty of bribery by himself or his agents should
 866
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, the right hon. Gentleman (Sir George Grey) had taken it on him to assume a state of his (Colonel
 870
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he rose to order. The right hon. Gentleman should be bound by his own statement that there was no Motion before the House.
 MR. G. CLIVE  said, he saw no reason for a change in the name; at the same time, the Government had no objection to the alteration.
 MR. G. CLIVE  said, he had certainly received some communications showing that there was much inconvenience arising from mistakes in the opening of letters by the one force which were intended for the other.
 MR. G. CLIVE  said, he thought the clause unnecessary, inasmuch as the police authorities already possessed those powers which it was the object of the proposed clause to give them.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, if the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge had not interposed it would have been his duty to inform the hon. and gallant Gentleman that the question which he had brought before the House was not one of privilege. The only answer he could have given to this question, whether Viscount Bury had a right to sit in the House, would have been to request him to examine the Act of Parliament, which is very definite and distinct on this subject. The Act of Parliament, and not anything which might have fallen from him (the Speaker) was the proper guide for the proceedings of the House.
 MR. SPEAKER  acquainted the House, that he had this day received a Letter from Messrs. Baxter, Rose, and Norton, as Agents for Henry Clement Heard and Reuben Bond, informing him that it is not intended to proceed with their Petition, complaining of an undue Election and Return for the Borough of Bridgwater.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Hutt) had protested against the exemption of Catholics from what he called the general policy of English law. The hon. Member thought it was a very wonderful anomaly that this favourable exemption should have existed for the last six years. He would beg to remind the hon. Member that this was not the first-time the Catholics were exempted from the general policy of English law. A toleration Act was passed after the Revolution of 1688, from which they were exempted, and for a century and a half they suffered under penal enactments framed exclusively on their account. It was, indeed, to this century and a half of anomalous penal legislation that the half a dozen years of subsequent favourable exemption may be traced. Catholic charities were still surrounded by the  débris 860
 Mr. JOHN LOCKE  said, he did not think there was much in the objection urged by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) because there was a Commissioner and a Chief Commissioner for the City of London.
 MR. WISE  said, the term "Commissioner" was essentially of French origin, and the term "Constable" was thoroughly English, and therefore he should vote for the latter. They ought to think more of the people and less of the wishes of the police.
 MR. WISE  said, he thought the hon. Gentleman proposed to take a very unusual course. A few hours ago the House rejected a Bill which would practically have effected to a great extent the object contemplated by this clause, and he now endeavoured to attain that object by bringing up a clause which was not at all germane to the Bill under discussion. He (Mr. Wise) thought it was not right or just to propose such a clause after the distinct pledge which had been given to the House that a Select Committee should be appointed at the commencement of next Session to inquire into the whole question of the expenses of high sheriffs.
 MR. J. EWART  seconded the Motion. He thought it a defect in the present state of the law, that in the case of serious crimes all the punishment the consul could inflict was to make the captain of the ship pay a sort of fine.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether it would be practicable to lay on the Table of the House the Judicial Statistics of England and Wales, which are made up to the 29th day of September each year before the succeeding Easter Recess; and whether some similar statistics for Scotland might not be appended to the said Report.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he rose to move—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying Her Majesty to be graciously pleased to enter into negotiations with the Government of the United States of America, for the purpose of presenting the assaults and cruelties committed on Merchant Seamen engaged in traffic between this Country and the United States, and of bringing to justice the perpetrators of such offences, many of whom escape with imounity in consequence of the defects of the present system of international jurisdiction." 872 résumé Etivan, Mountaineer. 873 874 New York Commercial Advertiser, "Certainly the subject is important. The humanity and generosity of this country and Great Britain should be glad to unite in some feasible reform to prevent this reign of cruelty and violence." 875 876
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, in reply he had to thank the House and the Government for the consideration they had given to the subject, and he had no doubt the discussion which had taken place would materially promote the humane object he had in view. With respect to the number of trials in America he would remind the right hon. Member opposite (Mr. Henley), that there was a great difference in the crews of inward and outward bound ships. There was no difficulty in getting sailors to go from Europe to America, but in manning ships to return to Europe there was fierce competition, an extensive crimping system was carried on, and much cruelty was practised. He hoped his Friends in the Government would not overlook the case of the murderer, who was now at large, because the authorities of this country had no power to secure him. The powers of the extradition treaty, which were now ex-
 881
 MR. SPOONER  said, he had not the slightest wish to take any part in the discussion, nor to interfere with matters relating to the Roman Catholics exclusively. He wanted, however, to know why the members of that body should, in respect to charities, be exempted from the general law of the land? He believed that a very large body of the most respectable Roman Catholics in this country were in favour of some such measure as that now before the House.
 MR. LAING  stated, in reply, that a regulation did exist, not to prevent men in the Preventive Service from marrying, but to restrict employment in that service to unmarried men. The reason was that Preventive Officers had to go over an extensive district, and were required to be absent from home at least four nights in the week, and experience had proved that married men were apt to neglect their duty in order to remain with their families. Gases had occurred in Scotland in which the engagements of married men had been terminated; but the words "dismissal for an offence" could not be applied to the termination of an engagement which was made upon the distinct understanding that such was one of the conditions of the service,
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the subject was so important that he hoped he should be pardoned if he addressed a few words to the House before Mr. Speaker replied to the question of the hon. and gallant Member. The case stood thus. After the general election petitions were presented against the return of Viscount Bury and Mr. Schneider, on the ground that they had been guilty of bribery at the election for Norwich. Subsequently, Viscount Bury took office in the Government, when a question arose in this House as to whether the Writ, under those circumstances, should be allowed to issue. He (Mr. Walpole) was not present at the time, but he believed that upon that point the House decided, under Mr. Speaker's ruling, that the Writ could issue, if the House thought fit to direct that it should issue. If he might venture to express an opinion, he should
 867 868 869
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he heard with great satisfaction the announcement of the right hon. Gentleman in regard to this Bill, as he thought that a measure touching such delicate questions as those of religion and conscience should be brought in at a time when the House would be prepared to devote more time to its calm and dispassionate consideration. These annual continuance Bills exempting Roman Catholics from the operation of a general law were no doubt looked upon as objectionable, and the hon. and learned Member for Dundalk (Mr. Bowyer) had been called on to afford his assistance in the framing of a satisfactory measure on
 857
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he thought that the object aimed at by the hon. Gentleman could be better attained simply by altering the name of "Chief Constable of Boroughs," and not attempting to change the designation of the Chief Constables of Counties to that of Commissioners of Police.
 MR. BEAUMONT  said, that as representing a considerable number of English Roman Catholics, he could state that they entirely approved the Bill which had been introduced by the Home Secretary, and the opposition to that measure proceeded exclusively, he believed, from Irish Roman Catholics, whose interests it would not affect. [ A cry of"
 MR. DEEDES  said, he thought that the clause might work inconveniently in respect to the will of the High Sheriff and the dictum of the Judge. The former might desire to get rid of the javelin-men, and thereby to save himself from what he might consider an unnecessary expense; but the latter, on the other hand, might require the observance of the usual customs in regard to the javelin men at the assizes.
 MR. DEEDES  then moved the addition of this clause:—
 "The chief constable of any county police force, and the watch committee of any city, borough, district, or place, is and are hereby empowered to suspend or dismiss any constable within their respective jurisdictions for misconduct or dereliction of duty; and, in case of such suspension or dismissal, all or any arrears of pay due to the said constable shall he forfeited; and the said chief constable or watch committee is and are hereby also empowered, at his or their discretion, to fine any such constable in a sum of money not exceeding one week's pay, and to reduce the said constable from a superior to an inferior rank, such fine and reduction in rank to be in addition to any other punishment to which the said constable may be liable; and all punishments, penalties, and fines, such as above enumerated, heretofore imposed or inflicted under any rules framed under and by virtue of the third section, 2  & 3 Vict.,
 MR. BOWYER  said, he was glad to hear the announcement just made by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department. He had endeavoured to place his views on paper as to how this question ought to be dealt with. Some Roman Catholics of the north of England, stated their own views in a petition to the House, but the right hon. Gentleman struck out a different course altogether in framing this Bill, which, in his opinion, was a highly objectionable one. The great objection to the Bill was, that it gave for the first time a legislative sanction to the law commonly known as the law of superstitious uses, in respect to which a question might still be raised before the House of Lords on appeal. There was a period when the Roman Catholic religion was altogeter illegal, but Roman Catholics were now placed upon an equal footing with Protestants, and he contended, therefore, that any religious practice pertaining to the Catholic Church ought not to be stigmatized by the law of England, if it involved nothing offensive or injurious to those who did not belong to that Church. He maintained that the law of superstitious uses was highly objectionable, and any Bill which had the effect of giving renewed legislative sanction to that law would be highly offensive to Her Majesty's subjects of the Roman Catholic religion. All the Roman Catholics asked was, that the Legislature would leave them to manage as they thought fit their own property, which was applied exclusively to
 858
 SIR GEORGE GREY  thought the Act passed in the 2nd & 3rd  Vict.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the clause appeared very loosely and inaccurately worded, and would require to be very much
 854
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that this was a very irregular discussion. There was no Motion before the House, and the question asked related to the construction of an Act of Parliament which he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman opposite it was hardly right to call upon the Speaker to determine.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that his right hon. Friend (Sir G. Lewis) had given notice of his intention to introduce another Bill on this subject, and when that measure was laid upon the table it would be the proper time to discuss its provisions. Considering the period of the Session, and the impossibility that a Bill of this importance could receive due consideration in the other House, his right hon. Friend had no option but to move the discharge of the order for proceeding with the measure. He might express his hope that the hon. and learned Member for Dundalk would not content himself with suggesting clauses to the Secretary of State, but that at the commencement of the next Session he would lay before the House a Bill embodying his own views, and those of the gentlemen whom he represented, and it would then be ascertained what amount of agreement there was in the Roman Catholic body on this question.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he would move the adjournment of the House so as to put himself in order. It might be supposed that the hon. and gallant Gentleman had raised this question on behalf of Viscount Bury, as though the noble Lord were anxious to sit and vote. Now, he (Sir George Grey) was assured that this was not the case; that the question was one spontaneously raised by the hon. Gentleman in order to satisfy his own mind on the subject; that Viscount Bury had not been within the House since the decision of the Election Committee, and had no intention of sitting and voting. Under these circumstances, he thought the subject might well be deferred until the next day, when notice had been given for the issue of one of the Writs for Norwich, the hon. Member for Finsbury concurring with the right hon. Gentleman opposite that, the seat being claimed, it would be premature to prejudice the claims of Colonel Boldero by issuing the other Writ. If Viscount Bury had presented himself within the House, it might have been quite right to take notice that he was incapacitated from sitting by the decision of an Election Committee; but to put a hypothetical case to the Speaker on a subject that must after all be decided by the House was, he thought, wholly uncalled for.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he wished to give notice that it was his intention to oppose the issuing of a new Writ. Though it was decided in the case of Dartmouth that he was wrong, yet he believed that in the case of Norwich he had good grounds to go upon, and he intended to move an Amendment to the hon. Member for Finsbury's Motion to the effect that the Writ ought not to be issued till the evidence was in the hands of hon. Members,
 MR. HUTT  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department when he proposes to introduce a Bill for continuing the exemption of Roman Catholic Charities from the jurisdiction of the Charity Commissioners.
 MR. HUTT  said, he begged to inform the right hon. Gentleman, that he should give to the introduction of the Bill all the opposition in his power.
 MR. HUTT  expressed his surprise at the course now proposed to be taken by the right hon. Gentleman. He had so frequently heard of there being no time for the enactment of a special measure on the subject, and that it would be therefore necessary to renew this exemption Bill once more, that he was quite sick of the matter, and he confessed he had a distrust of the whole proceedings in respect to this measure, He represented a considerable body of Roman Catholics in the north of England, who were most desirous for the passing of a Bill upon this question, and it was partly in consequence of petitions which he had presented, numerously signed by the members of that body, that his right hon. Friend had undertaken to deal with the question. He had that morning had an interview with a gentleman of the highest respectability and character from the north of England, who assured him that the measure proposed by the Government would afford perfect satisfaction to those with whom he acted; and he (Mr. Hutt) must therefore express his regret that the Government did not intend to proceed with it. He was so thoroughly impressed with the necessity of legislation on this subject that he would do all in his power to prevent any further exemption of Roman Catholic trusts from the operation of the general law. Such exemption had been granted for six successive years without any attempt having been made at practical legislation on the subject, and, therefore, with
 859
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  said, that such a proposition as was embodied in this clause had been made to the magistrates of the county he had the honour of representing (Somersetshire), and had been rejected by them. It was evident that the employment of the police in lieu of javelin-men might be suggested to courts of quarter sessions, who could deal with the question as they thought fit, and therefore he deemed this clause entirely unnecessary.
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  said, he wished to move the omission of the words in parenthesis in lines 13 and 14. It was his intention to move the addition of a clause, which would give effect to the alteration he proposed.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  expressed his readiness to do so.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the suggestion that the lien of Judgments upon landed property was too important to be dealt with incidentally. Certainly as it stood the clause would act very oppressively in the case of creditors to the Crown. It would force the Crown to execute judgments against Crown debtors which were now not enforced.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he hoped that his right hon. and learned Friend would not abandon these clauses, for the object of the Bill being to facilitate purchases, he thought it was important that they should have a statutory declaration of the law, instead of relying merely upon certain decisions of the Courts.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he approved the clause, with certain modifications in its form. It only extended to sellers a principle already applicable to trustees.
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  said, he thought the officers of the National Gallery should be the persons authorized to purchase the portraits. At present the best portraits were allowed to be bought at public sales by the picture dealers, from whom the Government bought them at advanced prices. Another objection he had to leaving the matter in the hands of  dilettanti
 MR. RIDLEY  supported the Vote, observing that a national portrait gallery would constitute a very fine volume of our national history. In the Pitti Gallery at Florence two rooms were devoted to the exhibition of the portraits of men who had been famous in literature, art, and science, and that among the whole of that magnificent collection no two rooms were generally more frequented.
 MR. A. SMITH  suggested that the portraits should be hung up in the galleries of the Houses of Parliament.
 MR. DAWSON  said, it was of the utmost consequence to know the producing power of the country.
 MR. LYGON  suggested, that the Vote should be postponed or passed  pro formâ,
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  could not see why these buildings could not have been as easily and economically erected in the square of Burlington House as at Kensington Gore. The temporary buildings would have been useful there, if the Government carried out what seemed to be the intention of successive Governments—namely, that of interfering with art and scientific societies, and making them mere handmaids of the State. That was a system against which he had for many years protested. Art and science had progressed in this country without a connection with the State. He doubted whether their progress would be equally satisfactory if they received buildings from the Government, and were otherwise connected with the State. The whole arrangement looked as if there was some underhand influence at work to induce the House to change its Resolution and so each item of the public collections was being successively moved to the west end of London, where none but the rich could enjoy them.
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  asked out of what funds these buildings had been paid for, for it was evident the money had been paid.
 MR. CLIFFORD  observed, that he did not deny that the sufferings of Mr. Barber had been great, but it should be remembered that by this Vote the House was introducing an entirely new principle into the administration of the law. If the House was to compensate a man who had been found guilty by the verdict of a jury of his countrymen, then they must  a fortiori
 LORD ELCHO  said, he expected that the collection about to be removed to the temporary buildings would take their place in the National Gallery when a suitable building should have been provided for the national collection.
 LORD ELCHO  suggested, that before any site was granted to the Royal Academy, an inquiry should be instituted into the mode in which the Academy fulfilled its functions, and into its general constitution. It was supposed to be at the head of art in this country, and he thought it important that it should be freely open to all artists, whether oil painters, watercolour painters, sculptors, or engravers. He wished inquiry to be made, whether the Academy was a school of art for the instruction of artists, and whether its honours were freely open to all artists in Great Britain?
 LORD J. MANNERS  said, he was quite at a loss to know to what influence the hon. and learned Gentleman alluded, and, as one of the late Government who had discussed these temporary buildings, he could safely say no influence had animated their opinion on the matter. They were excessively puzzled where to find a site. The hon. and learned Gentleman suggested that the vacant ground at the back of Burlington House should have been selected, and that twelve months was ample time to erect a permanent building for the Royal Academy. The hon. and learned Gentleman must have had very little practical acquaintance with Government buildings if he supposed that in that short space of time any such building could be completed, and if temporary buildings had been erected there, they would have had to be pulled down before the permanent edifice could be finished. He took especial pains to inquire as to the best site, and, as far as his own opinion went, he thought no part so accessible as Carlton Ride. But there were objections to that, and just at the moment, most fortunately as he thought, an offer was made by the Science and Art Department, to allow temporary buildings to be erected at Kensington, where there was already the valuable collection of pictures of Mr. Sheepshanks. That the national collection of pictures was perma-
 898
 MR. AYRTON  said, he could not but object to such enormous expenses for merely temporary accommodation. If it was proposed to remove the Royal Academy to Burlington House, surely twelve months would be time enough to provide temporary accommodation, and when that was completed, the space now occupied by the Royal Academy in the National Gallery would be available for these pictures. Supposing that were not so, why should not the temporary building be erected on the vacant ground at the back of Burlington House? Why then should they be removed to Kensington? The truth was, this was one of those intrigues against which the House of Commons found itself unable to contend. There was some one at the bottom of it; and, although the House protested against the removal to the extreme west of London, in the name of the inhabitants of the metropolis and of those who resorted to it either on business or on pleasure, everything was done contrary to the real interests of the public and against the wishes of the House. At whose instigation was this? How was it that against everybody's wishes the work was going on? The House had distinctly said it should not be done; yet now there was a proposition before the Committee of the House of Commons to Vote £9,000 to promote the inconvenience of the inhabitants of the metropolis. At whose instigation and for whose gratification was this? Was it that some one person might visit and inspect the works of art by going west instead of driving among the dwellings of the metropolis? He would remind hon. Gentlemen who represented country con-
 897
 MR. AYRTON  said, the picture commemorated a great national event, one of the highest interest in modern times—of far deeper interest than the subjects of fire
 894
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to ask what was the real meaning of the contract entered into with the Red Sea Telegraph Company? Clause 4 of this Act provided "that the company shall themselves well and efficiently work all their lines of telegraph for the transmission and delivery of messages;" and in Clause 15 it was stated that if they did not do so the Government might take possession of the lines. Now, supposing the company failed to work these lines efficiently, and the Government did not take possession, what would then be the relation of the Treasury to the company? Were the Committee to understand that the money was to be paid in any case, whether the telegraph was worked by the company or not?
 MR. AYRTON  observed, that this gallery was a favourite with the right hon. Gentlemen on the front bench on both sides of the House, because they were under the delusion that some day their own portraits would be hung there. He believed that if no money were spent at all we should get as many pictures as were wanted from private donations. Nobody cared a straw about nine-tenths of those purchased. He therefore trusted the hon. Gentleman would persevere in his opposition.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  remarked that the sum was inadequate to the losses Mr. Barber had sustained and the sufferings he had undergone; he had lost £10,000, and his sufferings were unmerited.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the House had upon various occasions expressed a great desire for the collection of agricultural statistics, and although in England they had not been collected, yet he thought that as a very small sum was asked to de-
 891
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, the hon. Gentleman must not forget that his own political friends were the persons who were most deeply implicated in the question. [Mr. SPOONER: That does not matter.] He (Colonel French), however, found no fault with them for the part which they had taken in the transaction. He believed the purchase to be a desirable purchase, and that a majority of the Members of the late House had signified their assent to its being bought.
 COLONEL FRENCH  observed that he would support the clause, although he held that it did not go quite far enough.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he would move the omission of the clause, as being unnecessary and calculated to work mischief.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he would move the following clause:—
 "Where a trustee, executor, or administrator shall not be authorized, but shall not by some instrument creating his trust be expressly forbidden, to invest a fund forming a subject of his trust upon mortgage of freehold, copyhold, or leasehold estates within the United Kingdom, or upon the stocks, bonds, or debentures of the Bank of England or Ireland, or on India stock, it shall be lawful for such trustee, executor, or administrator so to invest such fund; and such trustee, executor, or administrator shall not be liable, as for a breach of trust, in respect of such investment already made, or hereafter to be made."
 MR. FARRER  saw no reason why they should not pursue the same course which all prudent people observed, not to buy things when they had not the means to pay for them. They had been told that money could not be voted for harbours of refuge because they had not the means. He hoped this Vote would be disallowed, and when they had the means he should be very happy to vote money to purchase the picture.
 MR. BRISCOE  said, that he desired to see in London a portrait gallery of that character which was to be found in most continental cities.
 MR. JOHN LOCKE  said, he was not aware that the rooms recently occupied by the Royal Academy were to be used till next year. Could not the pictures which it was proposed to send to the temporary building be sent to those apartments after that Society had removed? Every hon. Member who had the interest of the country at heart must be astonished at a demand of £10,000 for such a building. That amount ought to provide a permanent building for those pictures. He believed the Royal Academy was in Trafalgar Square by sufferance. If so, the pictures should be removed from Marlborough House to Trafalgar Square, and the Royal Academy told that they should look out for another place for their next year's exhibition. It appeared to him to be a monstrous thing to vote £10,000 for the purpose for which that amount was now asked.
 MR. WISE  said, he would remind the Committee that it was not the first time they had been called upon to register a contract rather than Vote an Estimate. Some two or three years ago a Vote of £11,000 was proposed for the payment of a chapel in Paris which had been purchased without the authority of Parliament. The Committee felt it to be its duty to refuse that Vote, on the ground that such contracts should not be made without first obtaining the sanction of Parliament.
 MR. BLACKBURN  observed, that the biography of every great man was accompanied by his portrait, a circumstance which obviated the necessity for the Gallery, the only use of which seemed to be to bring all those portraits into one group.
 MR. MALINS  said he should support the Vote if he had the positive assurance of the Chancellor of the Exchequer that these buildings were required for perma-
 902
 MR. MALINS  said, that this clause raised the question whether a judgment ought or ought not to be a charge on land. That was a fair question for argument. In the case of personal property, such as chairs and tables, a judgment was no charge, and the property could only be taken when the judgment was executed. In the case of land, a judgment, being duly registered, was a charge. Now either this ought or ought not to be. But the Bill took a middle course, and provided that a judgment should not bind the land until execution issued. This was a most mischievous state of things. The Bill ought either to enact that the judgment should be no charge at all, or it ought to leave the law as it stood.
 MR. MALINS  said, he might illustrate the necessity for that provision by reference to a case which had recently occupied the Court of Chancery for ten days.
 MR. MALINS  said, that the law as now laid down was in complete accordance with the propositions contained in this and the following clauses, and he strongly objected to the principle of introducing into a Bill clauses declaring that to be the law which every practitioner of any experience knew, according to the ruling of the courts, was the law at present.
 MR. MALINS  said, he concurred in thinking that it would be better to omit the clause.
 MR. SPOONER  observed that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had afforded the best proof that there was no necessity for the Vote by alluding to the Manchester Exhibition. There would be many such exhibitions if the people were left to themselves, but here the working people were taxed for the gratification of the higher classes.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he should oppose the Vote, as the House of Commons had no right to expend public money in buying pictures. The gallery was useless in point of art, and the collection was without a moral, as the selection was made rather upon notoriety than character. Besides, it had already transpired that there was not enough room for the paintings, and next year, he supposed, £30,000 would be wanted to provide a building. He should therefore take the sense of the Committee on the Vote.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he wished to call the attention of the Committee to the Vote for the purchase of this picture. They had already voted £2,000 for the purchase of pictures for the Portrait Gallery, and this picture ought to be paid for out of that fund. It appeared that the picture had been already bought; and he thought it was a most unconstitutional course to buy the picture and then come to the House and ask Parliament to pay for it.
 MR. SPOONER : Has the picture been paid for; and if so, by what authority?
 MR. SPOONER  said, the whole affair was not a little extraordinary. If the picture had been paid for then he should like to know what was to be done with it. It could not be placed in the National Portrait Gallery, because there was a rule in existence prohibiting the placing of the portraits of living persons in that establishment. There was, therefore, no room of which he was aware in which to put it, and he could not help thinking, therefore, that expense had been incurred in a most unconstitutional manner to no good purpose. He said, in a most unconstitutional manner, because it was natural to suppose that the picture in question would be paid for out of the annual Vote for the National Gallery, which had been already granted, whereas it appeared it was to be made the subject of a separate Vote.
 MR. SPOONER  said, it was an improper proceeding to buy a picture without first obtaining the consent of the House;
 895
 MR. LAING  said, it would be inconvenient to postpone the Vote. The sum had actually been paid out of the Civil Contingencies by the order of the late Chancellor of the Exchequer, and would the Committee make him personally responsible for the outlay?
 MR. LAING  remarked, that the hon. Gentleman laboured under an erroneous impression if he supposed the £2,000 for
 892
 MR. LAING  explained that the Vote was required for the completion of a valuable survey of Ireland.
 MR. LAING  said, the police force had
 887
 MR. LAING  said, he hoped his hon. Friend the Member for Brighton would not divide the Committee on the Amend-
 886
 MR. LAING  said, this contract was the subject of an Act of Parliament, and had already given rise to considerable discussion. It had then been explained that the Government guarantee was an absolute not a conditional one, it having been found impossible to form a company for the execution of this work on any other terms. If the working of the cable, therefore, were to be interrupted through any accident, the Government would still be responsible for the payment.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he believed this clause, and the subsequent clauses to which his hon. and learned Friends had referred, constituted a very valuable portion of the Bill. In his opinion those clauses would have the effect of saving consider-
 884
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he could not but admit that the clause was unsatisfactory.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, if the hon. and learned Gentleman would bring up such a proviso upon the Report, he should not object to it.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the clause was important, and ought to be retained. Its object—obviously an unobjectionable one—was that any seller or his solicitor who concealed any instrument material to the title, with intent to defraud, should be deemed guilty of misdemeanor.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that this and the other clauses had been carefully considered in Committee of the other House of Parliament, when all the law Lords were present, but he would not press the clause after the expression of opinion that had taken place.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  observed, that the last observation was an argument in favour of the Vote. He might also refer to the Manchester Exhibition, in which the portraits of distinguished men had been placed together in one department instead of being scattered among the general collection, and no portion of the exhibition had excited greater interest than that which contained those pictures. While, however, he did not think that the Vote for the purpose of securing a national collection of portraits was open to objection he was perfectly ready to admit that there was something anomalous in having a separate establishment for such a gallery. The element of art entered largely into its formation, and he was therefore of opinion that its disassociation from the National Gallery ought to be regarded as merely provisional. At present
 890
 THE CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER  said, that in point of fact the transaction had come more especially within the jurisdiction of his predecessor in office, and that if the picture had been paid for it had been done by his authority.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he remembered very well that the various Members of the House who had sat to the painter did pay a certain sum, and that they received in return a sort of sketch portrait; but these contributions did not at all repay the artist for the work. There were two questions to be considered. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Spooner) must remember that the late Government were responsible for this purchase,
 893 ex post facto
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was the misfortune of discussions of questions of art in that House that it allowed all the subjects connected with it to run into one another. On this
 900 901 "He sees a form we cannot see,"
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he thought it necessary the Committee should be informed of what were the real intentions of the Government with regard to the National Gallery? The removal of a portion of the pictures from Trafalgar Square gave rise to suspicions of their ultimate intentions. He wished also to know whether there was any change in the decision to grant a site for the Royal Academy at Burlington House?
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, the late Chancellor of the Exchequer had referred the question of the purchase of the picture to the noble Lord who represented the City of London (Lord John Russell), the noble Lord who represented Haddingtonshire (Lord Elcho), and himself; and although he was in favour of a lower price, he waived his opinion, and joined in recommending the purchase which had taken place.
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, that the explanations of the noble Lord were anything but satisfactory. It was proposed to give the Royal Academy a magnificent and spacious site for the erection of a building which would give them an unfair advantage over competing art societies. If any temporary edifices were to be erected he thought that the Royal Academy should erect a temporary building for themselves. He would remind the Committee that already £17,000 was voted for Marlborough House. The tendency of these Votes was to increase every year, and he feared the result would be that the country would take up a strong opinion against the arts. He should, therefore, support the Motion.
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, that on the distinct understanding that the Vote would be reduced next year, he would withdraw his intended Amendment.
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he should support the Amendment, not because he objected to the collection of pictures by the nation, but because he thought the machinery of the National Gallery ought to be made use of for the purpose. In that grossly mismanaged institution there was a Director at £1,000 a year, and a Secretary at £750, and why, then, should it be necessary to appoint a second Secretary at £350, who wrote a long letter to the  The Times
 MR. DEEDES  said, he should vote against this grant, because he thought that it was for an object of luxury, and that the country just now could not afford to indulge in objects of luxury, on the same principle as would lead a prudent man to keep away from a picture sale if he had not a shot in his locker.
 MR. DEEDES  asked whether the painter had not, in fact, been paid for this picture, and whether the various Members comprised in the painting had not been applied to for their contributions?
 MR. MURRAY  recommended that the clause should be extended to all equitable deposits of deeds.
 COLONEL SYKES  remarked that the use of agricultural statistics was quite obvious. It was precisely the same as a tradesman taking stock. There were a certain number of mouths to be supplied, and if these statistics were collected they would know exactly how much grain could be supplied by this country, and how much was necessary to be imported.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, this was a most objectionable Vote. How was it that a body of 20,000 soldiers required a constabulary force to look after them? Surely they were able to take care of themselves.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he also should oppose the Vote. For a justification of that course he might refer to the case of Greenwich Hospital, the walls of which were covered with most interesting historical portraits, all of which were voluntarily presented to the nation.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  objected to the Vote.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that in his opinion the Committee were free to rescind the bargain if they thought proper, as they were not bound by anything that had been done in the matter by the Members of the late House of Commons. If they had the picture they must have a place to hang it, and that involved a further outlay. He might mention that he was applied to by the artist to sit for his portrait, and pay for it, but he declined the honour.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, it was not consistent with the dignity of the Committee to discuss any Vote where the money had already been expended. In his opinion a systematic attempt had been made to set aside the authority of Parliament over the Estimates, and he should therefore support the Amendment.
 MR. CAIRD  said, that if these statistics had been collected at a much earlier period the calamities which had occurred in Ireland would not have happened.
 MR. ROLT  suggested that mortgagors of land should be included as well as vendors.
 MR. ROLT  said, that if the clause remained, some proviso ought to be added to guard against injury to titles; as otherwise the clause might cast a doubt on the existing law.
 MR. ROLT  said, he thought this and the four following clauses, which gave devisees in trust the power to sell estates for payment of debts, related to matters of so much importance that they ought to form the subject of distinct and separate legislation. Besides, the matter was already settled by decisions of the Courts.
 MR. ROLT  said, he would suggest that the clause should be omitted, as it was a mere idle piece of legislation. It proposed to deal with acts implying waver of covenant, but it was impossible to deal with that matter by legislation. It must be left to the Courts to decide what was the effect of particular Acts.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that on one occasion, a portrait of Lord Nelson, for which £800 was asked, was sent to the trustees for inspection, when it was found that the great naval commander was depicted in the flaming uniform of a field marshal.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  observed, that as one concerned in agriculture, he doubted the possibility of procuring returns that were reliable.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he wished to ask what advantage was derived by any other persons than speculators in corn from the expenditure for agricultural statistics in that country?
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that as these buildings were only temporary for the purposes of these pictures, he trusted the public would have the benefit of them after the paintings were removed. Would they, for instance, be given, at the public expense, to the Society for Promoting Science and Art when the pictures were removed?
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, the Vote was not for temporary buildings, at least so far as the Estimates were concerned. It appeared by the Estimates a portion of this Vote was for a fire-proof room, and he should be glad to hear from the Chancellor of the Exchequer if this Vote really was for temporary purposes.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he thought the Government, instead of spending £10,000 on such temporary erections, would have done better to have advertised for buildings in which these pictures could have been exhibited. It might have obtained the rooms of the British Institution in Suffolk Street, or the Polytechnic. The precedent of the Government spending the money first and applying to that House for a Vote afterwards was a very bad one.
 MR. STIRLING  said, he did not understand why so large a sum was required for
 899
 MR. STIRLING  said, he was surprised that the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Coningham) who, a few nights ago, complained of the management of the National Gallery as so very bad that it ought to be removed from the hands of the Director, should now wish to throw increased duties upon that Gentleman. He agreed, however, that the Portrait Gallery ought at some time or other to be made a branch of the National Gallery, but at present there was much preliminary work to be done. It was not likely that the walls would be
 889
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, it has been said that those who sit upon this bench favour the gallery because they hope one day to have their portraits there. As far as I am concerned—and I think I may speak for my colleagues—I should be well content to compound with the hon. Gentleman the Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) on that point by a Resolution that none of our portraits shall be placed
 888
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the exact arrangements for providing a site for the Royal Academy had not yet been settled, but he apprehended that the arrangement suggested by the last Commission for Maintaining the National Gallery in Trafalgar Square would be adopted, the House of Commons consenting to vote the expenses necessarily attendant upon such an enlarge-
 896
 MR. FITZROY  said, he had come into office when the undertaking was nearly completed, and he was not responsible for the expenditure; but according to the solemn assurance of the engineer, he could state that the sum mentioned would cover the completion of the work, together with approaches on the west side. The £96,921 which remained un voted would, he believed, complete all the works. Of this £60,000 was now proposed to be voted, and there would remain to be voted next year £36,921. One cause of expense had been the dealing with the old foundation. He believed that one half of the bridge would be open in November. With regard to the
 917
 MR. FITZROY  said, that the wall was part of the Palace, and he confessed he did not see why it was not included in the Vote for the Royal Palaces.
 COLONEL DUNNE  inquired what had become of the bridge estate?
 MR. FITZROY  replied, that the Treasury, thinking the requirements of the public service might render it essential to buy that estate for public purposes, advanced its value, £110,000, for the purpose of the bridge, and directed the Office of Works to act as regarded that estate as trustees for the benefit of the public.
 MR. FITZROY  repeated, that the excess of expenditure arose from the difficulty of dealing with the foundation.
 MR. FITZROY  said, that on entering on his duties he found in the office a plan, prepared under the sanction of his predecessor, for cleansing the Serpentine; but it would have involved a large expenditure, and appeared to be based on an estimate not very accurate, and to contain a proposition which was not likely to be agreeable to public opinion. It proposed to form an island in the Serpentine, which he thought would destroy the beauty of that piece of water? But if this plan were set aside, what was the alternative? He felt personally anxious to carry into effect some plan for cleansing the Serpentine, and he obtained an estimate for such a system of cleansing as had been so successfully adopted with respect to the ornamental water in St. James's Park. He found, however, that it would be impossible to apply that system to the Serpentine at a less expense than between £50,000 and £60,000. Having consulted several competent persons on the subject, he obtained from the Chancellor of the Exchequer a small sum in order to obtain the professional assistance of eminent engineers. He had obtained the assistance of Mr. Hawksley, an engineer of established reputation, who had submitted to him a plan which had been approved by the hon. Member for Finsbury (Sir S. M. Peto) and Mr. Stephenson, the eminent engineer, as safe, practical, and economical. Mr. Hawksley said,—
 942 "I propose to establish at the head of the Serpentine, in such manner as to be no detriment to its beauty, a proper filtering apparatus, similar in most particulars to those used by waterworks companies, and to draw from the lower end of the lake, by means of a small concealed steam-engine and pipe, about 2,000,000 gallons of water daily, which quantity of water, after passing through the filter-bed, would fall in a perfectly pellucid cascade into the lake at its head. By these means the whole volume of the water of the Serpentine would be passed through the apparatus once in every month, and be thereby rendered not merely perfectly free from all floating matter, but also perfectly clear and colourless. If small quantities of quick lime were also occasionally scattered along the shallow margins of the lake to destroy the conferva adhering to the pebbles of the beach, all grounds of just complaint against the condition of the water would be effectually removed."
 MR. FITZROY  replied in the negative. To accomplish this would cause an extra expenditure of £24,000. The sewer would present no difficulty under the filtering plan.
 COLONEL NORTH : Sir, I know nothing of this case; I merely rise for the purpose of asking the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield whether he has given notice to the hon. Member for Bodmin of his intention to make this Motion?
 MR. WHITESIDE : Sir, no hon. Gentleman in this House—not one—would suggest that we should proceed judicially; that is not the question raised, and I think that the hon. and gallant Member who has just resumed his scat has somewhat misconceived the scope of the debate. No one would suggest that we should proceed judicially against any person without giving him notice of the course which it is intended should be adopted. That is not the question which has been raised, but a question of considerable importance. I would suggest that to inquire into the return of a Member to this House is not like an ordinary lawsuit between A.B. and C.D., who if they choose may at any time enter into a compromise. There is a third party to be considered in the case, and that is the House of Commons, and more particularly that large class of Members who desire not a theoretical, but a practical reform of the House, and who think that there is a considerable difference between theoretical purity and practical corruption. By the merest accident I read this morning that a Gentleman who had been unseated upon one of the strongest cases of bribery, not by himself, but by his agents, which had recently come under the consideration of a Committee, had upon a former occasion delivered a most energetic speech in favour of Parliamentary purity and Parliamentary reform. I think that the House should remember that a case might arise in which a Petition against a return might be withdrawn because the Member did not like the aspect of the times, and dreaded the ordeal of a Parliamentary Committee, and because the petitioner was satisfied with the promised retirement of his competitor at the termination of the Session, and it surely is desirable that in such a case the House should strengthen the hands of the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the effort to baffle that corrupt compromise by refusing an application for the Stewardship of the Chiltern Hundreds. But the readi-
 960
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Sir, I do not understand that there is any very material difference now between the two sides of the House; but I would beg leave to call attention to the fact, that as far as I know there are only two precedents by which we have to guide ourselves. There is first the precedent to which my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer referred, which occurred in Mr. Goulburn's time. In that case there were, with regard to some hon. Members who were charged with corrupt practices, admissions; with regard to some there was admission, and with regard to none was there denial; and there was the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the whole of the circumstances. It was under these circumstances that Mr. Goulburn refused to grant the application for the Stewardship of the Chiltern Hundreds. There was another case which occurred when I held the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer. It was the case of Mr. Sadleir, who represented a county in Ireland, and he was the subject of a criminal charge upon which a prosecution had been instituted. I remember being asked whether I would consent to grant him the Chiltern Hundreds during the pendency of that charge, and I stated in this House that I would not grant the Chiltern Hundreds while that prosecution was pending, In point of fact, no application was ever made in the case of Mr. Sadleir, but I have a distinct recollection of having made that statement. 961 "That in the opinion of this House any Minister would be guilty of a breach of the privileges of this House, who should advise the Crown to confer the office of Steward of the Chiltern Hundreds, or of the Manor of East Hendred, or of the Manor of Northstead, or of the Manor of Hempholme; or of Escheator of Munster, upon any person charged with corrupt practices at an election, and who for the purpose of evading the jurisdiction of this House, has entered into an agreement to vacate his seat upon the withdrawal of the petition, charging him with such corrupt practices." 962
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, I do not agree with the hon. Member for Birmingham that the proposal which is now before the House would operate harshly in those cases—cases undoubtedly not uncommon—in which a Member is returned by illegal means of which he had no knowledge. There is no doubt that if this Resolution, or any other resolution of a similar character were adopted, it would not be possible for such a Member by the abandonment of his seat to escape the ordeal of a Committee of this House. But if such a case were brought before a Committee, although the seat would be lost, and the Member himself would be subject to the inconvenience and expense of an inquiry, no personal stigma would fall upon him, because the Committee who inquired into the matter would carefully distinguish between his acts and the acts of an agent for which, although he would be politically responsible he would not be responsible personally. Now, we are all agreed, I believe, as to the object to be attained, and the only question is, as to which of two modes will enable us to attain it in the most satisfactory manner. The proposal recommended by the Government, as I understand it, is that in every case in which a Petition has been presented against a sitting Member, and has been subsequently with drawn, and in which the Member has afterwards applied for the Chiltern Hundreds, we are not to assume the existence of a corrupt compromise or an intention to defeat the ends of justice, but that we are to grant the application unless some hon. Member shall take
 965 primâ facie primâ facie primâ facie
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, that the Vote before the Committee having reference to the Serpentine he would, before making some remarks upon the subject, ask permission to read some extracts from the Report of Mr. Page addressed to the Chief Commissioner of Works, and printed with the Estimates relating to public works and buildings. That Gentleman stated that:—
 "The Serpentine was fed by the stream called the Bayswater River, which, like the other streams and water courses of the Metropolis, was carefully protected from nuisance under the several commissions of sewers until the close of the last century, when the Metropolitan streams were converted into channels for sewage, a practice which has been acted upon and perpetuated by the Board of Health, and which has at length reduced the Thames itself in the summer season more to the character of a sewer than a river. I have found no records to show that this proceeding of the Commissioners of Sewers was approved by the Crown, but the gradual increase of the nuisance led to the passing of an Act in 1834 empowering
 968 "The value of this arrangement may be judged of by the fact, that as soon as the water in the sewer rose to the level of the weir, and a very little rise would be sufficient for that height, all the soil would pass over the weir into the Serpentine; and a case was related to me by Mr. Mann, the Superintendant of Hyde Park, that when his men were employed in clearing the mud from that part of the Serpentine which lies within Kensington Gardens, and had left their work during the dinner hour, a sudden storm of rain brought such a quantity of night soil over the weir that the bed of the river was covered with night soil five inches thick to some distance from the weir." 969
 MR. FITZROY  said, that the arguments of certain hon. Members certainly appeared somewhat strange; for if the water of the Serpentine was in the pestiferous condition in which some hon. Members represented it to be, it was strange that they should refuse to adopt a plan which was proposed for purifying the water. He believed the plan of the Government was calculated to remedy the evil in the shortest possible time, and it had received the sanction of one of the most eminent engineers of the day. He had endeavoured to explain at a morning sitting, that the method of purification which had proved so successful in St. James's Park would be attended with very considerable difficulty when applied on so large a scale as a water surface of forty-two acres. It was not merely the time which must elapse in cleaning out so large an area which had to be considered, but the noxious exhalations which must arise from the mud when exposed to atmospheric influence, and the difficulty which would afterwards be experienced in obtaining a fresh supply of water. Mr. Hawksley, in one of his Reports, pronounced it to be almost impossible to refill the Serpentine, and expressed a very strong opinion against the policy of emptying a lake containing upwards of 60,000,000 gallons of water, which was incapable of being replaced except by constant pumping for a period of at least six months, and with the assistance of the water companies, or else by very expensive and tedious processes. In another Report, Mr. Hawksley stated that to obtain such a supply as would continue in any sensible stream the water of the Serpentine, after it had been once drained off, appeared to him, under the peculiar circumstances of the case, almost impossible. Any water in the vicinity, from having been corrupted by passing
 972 973
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, that though he should have preferred the thing being thoroughly done even at a greater cost; yet, on the principle that half a loaf was better than no bread, he would accept the plan of the Chief Commissioner, hoping that it might turn out successful.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that he could not understand on what principle this Vote was demanded. Why should the Government continue an undertaking which was likely to continue a losing one, and from which the public as a whole derived no benefit?
 MR. GLYN  thought they were indebted to the right hon. Gentleman for having brought the question forward. There could be no doubt that the copper coinage was in a very bad state. An increase in the supply of copper coins was called for, and he hoped facilities would be given for extending the new coinage into every district in the kingdom. He believed that the profit realized would be even greater than that mentiened by the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that if the larger plan recommended by the Commission of 1845 for the works at Dovor were carried out at the rate at which they were now going on, the cost to the country would be upwards of £6,000,000 sterling. A smaller plan, recommended by Mr. Walker, was now being carried out, and he would not object to the Vote, if the money was required for completing the existing contract. As far as the works had gone they were certainly useful to the public, and particularly for the landing and departure of passengers between France and England. He trusted that the Government, when they had finished off the pier, would not think of going on with the gigantic scheme of the Commission; for if they did they might rely upon it that the harbour of refuge would never be of value at all equivalent to the sum expended upon it. He wished to know if they meant Aldemey to be an harbour of refuge or a harbour of defence? Environed as it was with rocks and shoals, he contended that as a harbour of refuge it would be utterly worthless, whilst as a place of defence it was
 983
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that the late Duke of Wellington considered Alderney as of the highest value in a military point of view; and it was the opinion of competent military authorities that 2,500 men would be sufficient for its defence.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he heartily wished that he could give information to the hon. Member for Gateshead (Mr. Hutt) as to the item for ascertaining those claims for compensation to which he had referred. The rules with regard to those claims were precisely laid down in the Act for the Abolition of the Ecclesiastical Court, and all that was required to be done by that Act was to obtain a return showing the amount of compensation that ought to be awarded. The Government of Lord Derby issued an unpaid Commission for the
 986
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  explained that he had been induced to look upon the task of the Commisioners as a simple one, because the late Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated to the House that reference would be made to the income tax returns.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, there was a Vote of £20,000 for Donaghadee, and he should like to know whether this was to be the last Vote, or the commencement of a series of similar Votes?
 COLONEL DUNNE  gave notice that when the Bill went into Committee he should above an Amendment, limiting the power of the Lords-lieutenant to amalgamate regiments of militia to cases in which the strength of each regiment was under 500 men; and to provide that the number of officers should be in proportion to the number of men.
 MR. LAING  said, that there was no
 992
 MR. HUBBARD  suggested that the probate duties required a general revision.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  explained that the object of the Bill was simply to avoid the expenses which would fall upon insolvent trusts if they were compelled to come to the House annually to renew their trusts. There was no desire to interfere with solvent trusts.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said
 993 994
 COLONEL DUNNE  seconded the Motion, on the ground that the Bill was equally objectionable to the Protestants as to the Roman Catholics of Ireland.
 MR. SERJEANT DEASY  said, that he agreed that the provision was especially objectionable to Catholics and Protestants in Ireland, and he believed that the Government would not press it.
 MR. LYGON  regretted that the original Act should have been so hurried through the House as to require every succeeding year a Bill to amend and explain its provisions. The law was in an anomalous state. There had been two private Bills for Divorce from India, but no application for the last two years from Ireland. It was proposed to extend the Act to Ireland, but he thought it should be extended to India and not to Ireland.
 MR. M'EVOY  hoped that the Motion for the rejection of the Bill would be pressed, feeling, as he did, the strongest objection to a measure which he believed would be detrimental to the interests of morality.
 MR. LOWE , in justice to the Committee, whose decision was thus impugned, wished to state exactly what it had recommended; he was not going for a moment to suggest that they should proceed with the Bill then, but the House ought to know what were the recommendations the hon. Member repudiated with so much scorn. What the Committee proposed was this—that in all Church of England schools, where the contrary intention was not expressly manifested in the deed of settlement, the children of Dissenters should be admitted without being obliged to learn the Catechism or attend the services of the Church of England. That was one concession. In the case of the Ilminster School the trustees were displaced merely because they were Dissenters, after the usage of 150 years, during which Dissenters had been appointed trustees. The Committee recommended that where twenty-five years' usage could be shown of the appointment of Dissenters they should be competent to be trustees, notwithstanding any doubt as to the construction of the original instrument. This was another concession. Both these concessions were proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh
 998
 MR. G. HOPE , as a Member of the Committee, regretted the course the hon. Member for Swansea (Mr. Dillwyn) had taken. The opinion of the Committee was that the Dissenters derived more benefit from the Bill as amended than they would have done from the measure as originally introduced. The Bill, as it first stood, would not at all have remedied the evil complained of as to the appointment of trustees.
 MR. WHITESIDE  resisted the Amendment, which he contended would be an act of injustice to the University of Dublin.
 MR. SERJEANT DEASY  concurred in the opinion expressed by Mr. Whiteside, and added that the Bill was simply intended to remedy a clerical error in the Medical Act of last year, which excluded licentiates in surgery of the University of Dublin from its operation.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, that the omission was a mere clerical error.
 MR. DUNLOP  denied that there was any clerical error in the Medical Act, which was passed in its present shape intentionally.
 MR. COWPER  said, the object of the clause was to extend the operation of the Medical Act from the masters in surgery by degree in Irish Universities, to licentiates, a measure which was never contemplated by the former Act, and moved that the clause be struck out.
 MR. WHITESIDE  was willing to consent to the insertion of any clause which might be proposed to prevent Sir T. B. Wilson interfering with Hampstead Heath.
 LORD FERMOY  said, that the Bill would have the effect of giving power to Sir Thomas Wilson to enclose Hampstead-heath, and that was a measure to which, as a metropolitan Member, he was determined to give his strenuous opposition. The Bill had been already rejected seven times, four times by the House of Lords and three times by the House of Commons.
 MR. MALINS  denied that the object of the Bill was to enclose Hampstead Heath. It only gave powers to Sir Thomas Wilson to enclose land which was scarcely within view of the Heath, and the promoter of the Bill was prepared to introduce a clause to prevent the enclosure of Hampstead Heath.
 LORD NAAS  was sorry that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cardwell) had not made a more distinct declaration on the subject of the 4th clause, extending the Bill to Ireland. If the Government did not express their willingness to consent to the expulsion of that clause, he (Lord Naas) and hon. Members on his side of the House could not consent to the second reading.
 CAPTAIN ESMONDE  said, he would oppose the Bill, unless there was a pledge that the clause extending it to Ireland would be struck out in Committee.
 MR. WHITESIDE  appealed to his hon.
 997
 LORD ELCHO  said, the discussion which had taken place had been so far satisfactory that they had ascertained that the architect of the new building was to be Mr. Scott, and he was glad that the hon. Member for Maidstone (Mr. Buxton), who was himself one of the competitors and carried off a prize, had expressed himself so strongly in favour of Mr. Scott's design. With regard to the other main objection to the building that the style was unsuited in its architecture to the purposes of a public building, that had been met. The objection as to cost had also been met by the hon. Members for Coventry and Leicestershire. The former, a practical man, had told them that as regarded ventilation and light the proposed building was all that could be desired.
 LORD ELCHO  said, it appeared from the evidence which had been adduced before a Committee of that House, that the present Foreign Office was in such a state, that whenever receptions were given by the Foreign Minister it was found necessary to prop it up, and the Foreign Secretary sat in his room writing important despatches, with the chance that at any moment the roof might come down upon his head. They had been told that this Vote was merely for the purpose of establishing a solid concrete foundation for the proposed edifice, and that by assenting to it they were in no respect committed to the style of the building. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had, however, stated to a deputation which waited upon him the other day, that Mr. Scott's design was one of the most monstrous things he had ever seen—that it was more fitted for a monastery than anything else, and that as long as he held office he would never consent to the adoption of Mr. Scott's plans. The noble Lord evidently wished to have a building in a totally different style. Competition had been invited on this subject; designs had been sent in; premiums had been awarded; the responsible Minister at the Board of Works had
 921 922 923 eye Building News, Architects' Journal
 MR. BYNG  asked the right hon. Gentleman whether he intended to carry out any of the recommendations of the Militia Commission, except those which were included in this Bill.
 GENERAL UPTON  called the attention of the House to the station selected for the
 990
 MR. LIDDELL  said they were going to vote £30,000, the greater part of which was to be laid out on the foundation of the building. He thought it very questionable whether they ought to lay out so much money on what was admitted to be a moveable peat bog. They ought also to decide on the general outline of the buildings that were to be erected before they laid out so much money on the foundation.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  stated in reply, that the report of the Royal Commissioners appointed to inquire into the books and stores at Weedon, Woolwich, and the Tower would be laid upon the table before the Recess.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  was obliged to the hon. and gallant Colonel for giving notice of his proposed Amendment, but he would remind him that in dealing with small regiments, with a view to save the expense of separate staffs they might have occasion to add a very small regiment to one over 500 men, and that to limit the number in each might defeat the object of the Bill. He had not yet been able to give all the attention it deserved to the Report of the Militia Commission, and all that he proposed to do during the present Session was to obtain power to carry out such of its recommendations as excited no opposition. During the recess he should consider the whole Report.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that strictly speaking no recommendation on the part of the late Board of Admiralty had been left with their successors. There existed a letter from the late First Lord (Sir John Pakington) to Lord Derby, in answer to a memorandum to which no signature was affixed. The memorandum asked for further facilities for Roman Catholic worship in the fleet, in the hospitals, and other establishments connected with the navy; and it had been answered by certain remarks of the right hon. Baronet (Sir John Pakington) to Lord Derby in which it was distinctly stated that the opinion of the Board of Admiralty had not been taken on the question. Consequently the Government had no knowledge of any proceedings having been taken by their predecessors with the view of giving further facilities for Roman Catholic worship. He could therefore only state to the hon. Gentleman that the present Board of Admiralty were most anxious, wherever they could do so consistently with the discipline of the Navy, to afford proper facilities of that nature to Roman Catholics and members of other sects dissenting from the Church of England.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he was afraid he must state to the hon. Gentleman that there was no intention on the part of the Government to propose such a scheme as that suggested by his question.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  observed, that Dr. Newman had been called upon to decide upon the design for a new building in Dublin which was intended for the Jesuits, and he said that the Gothic style was not so much in accordance with the real Ultramontane spirit as the Italian style.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he should support the Vote. He thought, however, that the formation of the proposed island, according to his plan, would have added to the beauty of the river.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the noble Lord at the head of the Government had impugned the conduct which he had thought it his duty to pursue, and he trusted, therefore, that the Committee would allow him to explain the reasons by which he had been actuated. Last autumn it became his duty to make up his mind on the subject and advise the Government. He invited the opinion of the Committee sitting on the subject as to the style and the architect; but they declined to give an opinion on either, holding that it was the duty of the Executive Government to adopt the responsibility. And he (Lord John
 936
 LORD JOHN MANNERS : Why, the preliminary steps were taken before the discussion in the House; but when the noble Lord talked about the discussions in that House, he asked what he meant by "discussions in that House?" He remembered the noble Lord calling Mr. Scott a monomaniac, and making a dashing, rattling sort of speech, which the House cheered and laughed at. But he would remind the noble Lord that a subsequent discussion had taken place in the House, and he would ask the noble Lord whether on this second occasion the opinion of the House was expressed in anything like the same sense? He (Lord John Manners) ventured to say that those who advocated the Gothic style of architecture had really the best of it. But how could the noble Lord talk of the result of discussions in that House when no vote was taken and no decision was challenged? He (Lord John Manners) had stated openly and frankly that he intended in this case to act upon the suggestions which were thrown out last year by the hon. Member for Stafford (Mr. Wise) with respect to the Vote for the house of our Ambassador at Paris—namely, to invite tenders from builders of eminence, and the House having given a tacit sanction to that proposal, it was too late for the noble Lord now to come forward and say that he (Lord John Manners) had assumed undue responsibility in taking the steps which had brought the question into its present position. But if he had assumed an unwise responsibility in adopting a course that had been tacitly sanctioned by the House, what would be thought of the noble Lord, who, unless he was greatly belied by rumour, had actually given instructions to the architect to prepare new designs in a different stylo without having in any way whatever communicated his intentions to the House? If the noble Lord would inform the House that he had not directed Mr. Scott to prepare designs in a different style of architecture, he (Lord John Manners) would at once withdraw the statement; but if the noble Lord had given such instructions, what became of his accusations against him? The noble Lord had given the House a catalogue of buildings in different styles of architecture, not Gothic, which
 937 938 939
 MR. AYRTON  thought that, on the other hand, a lighter penny would facilitate the adoption of the decimal system: if it were otherwise he should exceedingly object to the change. He hoped that the size of the farthing would not be reduced below what it was at present, or it would be a great inconvenience to the people.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the cost and delay of the bridge had arisen in a great degree from the constant  dilettanti 918
 MR. BLACK  owned that an extravagant sum had been laid out upon the Caledonian Canal, but that was before the reformed Parliament, when in return for their support of the Government a number of jobs were carried through by the Scotch Members, which now they were unable to perpetrate. If, however, hon. Gentlemen would compare in the present Estimates what was given to Scotland with the amount of public money voted to England and Ireland, they would see that Scotland would not get nearly an equal proportion. With regard to this canal, the Committee must remember that it was not the property of Scotland, but of the whole nation:—it was a public work. Would they, then be so foolish as to let it go to rack and ruin for want of the necessary repairs?
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of the Admiralty, whether as Scotland furnishes so much of the materials for ship-building and such a large proportion of the workmen employed in the Dockyards, it would not be for the public advantage to have a Government building-yard established in Scotland?
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  deemed it of great importance that in the new Foreign Office apartments should be provided which would enable the Minister of the Crown to receive foreigners in a maimer befitting the dignity of this country.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said it was to be regretted that the new public bridge, and every improvement connected with it, were not submitted to proper estimates.
 MR. FINLAY  said, the canal was not only useful as a passage but as a harbour of refuge for small vessels, which would otherwise have to go round the Mull of Galloway, which was the uttermost point of Scotland.
 MR. DISRAELI  wished to remind the Committee that when he introduced this subject to the House on a former occasion, he estimated, from the highest authority he could obtain on the question, that the country must be prepared to pay in the way of compensation the sum of £150,000; but, through the supervision of his hon. Friend the late Secretary for the Treasury (Sir Stafford Northcote) and the other Commissioners, that sum had been reduced to £120,000. He thought the Committee would admit that those could not be idle or superficial exertions that produced such a result. He felt it his duty to bear his testimony to the arduous labour which his hon. Friend and his colleagues had undergone; and he believed that there had been no occasion when men devoted themselves more assiduously to their duties, whether paid or unpaid.
 MR. DISRAELI : I do not apprehend, Sir, that this Motion is levelled against any individual; at least I should be unwilling, on whatever side of the House the hon. Member sat, to go into the subject upon any such ground. Important considerations are involved in this Motion, and I shall address myself to them, I trust, with a temper befitting their serious character, and totally independent of party feeling. Perhaps, however, I shall not be thought to go out of my way if I remind the House of the observations made by the noble Lord at the head of the Government on a former occasion with respect to some supposed levity of tone I had assumed, and warning me that before any long time elapsed I should have cause to change my tone. I can only say that whatever may happen as the result of the election petitions, I do not think they are of a character, at all events up to this time, to cause humiliation to hon. Gentlemen on this side of the House. I am unwilling to dwell upon this subject further on the present occasion; but I think that it will become this House, for the sake of its own character, and the influence which it ought to have in the country, not in any way to attempt to evade these questions. I have no doubt that the Committees, to whom the duty of investigating these Election Petitions has been entrusted, have discharged their duties faithfully so far as the investigation of these questions is concerned, but I do think, and I am sure I speak the sentiments of hon. Gentlemen on this side of the House with whom I have had opportunities of conferring, and they have been many, that it is of the utmost importance to allow no Petition of a serious nature presented to this House to escape investigation. No doubt some of these Petitions have been presented without due cause, and which, if they were inquired into, would be found to be frivolous and vexatious; but if this were to happen, if a Gentleman
 950 951
 MR. BUXTON  expressed his opinion that Mr. Scott's design would form one of the most beautiful buildings in the country. Many gentlemen were under the impression that a want of light always accompanied Gothic architecture; but the windows in Mr. Scott's design were as large as any windows in London, and could be filled in with plate glass. In point of access it was not inferior to Banks and Barry's design, and rather admitted more light and air. There was no reason whatever why the Gothic style should not be employed for civil buildings. Abroad many civil buildings, and even private houses were built in the Gothic style; and in this metropolis there were Westminster Hall, the courts of law, the dining hall at Lincoln's Inn, and the Guildhall in the Gothic style, and no man held that they were incongruous with the buildings about or unadapted for the purposes for which they were required. The taste for Italian architecture was decaying
 930
 MR. NEWDEGATE : Sir, I cannot help observing that the hon. Member for Bodmin has received but scant justice from the Gentlemen upon his own side of the House. I am far from being desirous of making this a party question, but I cannot help saying that I think there is much justice in the observations of the hon. Member for Birmingham upon this subject. In considering the character of the House I think we should not forget the character of the individual Members of whom the House is composed; and if a Member is charged with corrupt practices, the House ought to take care that that Member has an opportunity of defending himself before they accept that charge. The House is asked to proceed only on an assumption that the hon. Member for Bodmin has been guilty of corrupt practices. It is only an allegation and nothing more. I quite agree with the hon. Member for Birmingham, and wish that the same feeling of justice prevailed on this side of the House towards a Member who has always been associated with the Conservative party.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : Sir, I think it will be impossible for the House to affirm the Resolution of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, inasmuch as it calls upon the Chancellor of the Exchequer to appoint a Committee upon a matter as to which he has no information. The fact that the Resolution will throw upon the Chancellor of the Exchequer before he takes any proceedings with reference to the granting or non-granting of the Stewardship of the Chiltern Hundreds, the responsibility of making an inquiry which he has no possible means of making, seems to me a sufficient answer to the Resolution as it stands. Now, Sir, I think that the House ought to lake time to consider this question. Unless the hon. and learned Gentleman withdraws his Resolution I shall move the adjournment of the debate. I hope the hon. and learned Gentleman will put his Resolution upon the paper in order that this House may know what we really
 967
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the alterations referred to were simply for ex-
 984
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  was understood to say that the distribution of the Medals to the Indian Army could not be proceeded with until the Medal Roll had been received from India.
 Mr. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, there was an item of £421 for fees on conferring the title of Baron of the United Kingdom upon Sir Colin Campbell. He thought that these titles of honour ought not to be the means of extorting money out of the pockets of the officers who had won such honourable distinctions.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  asked whether the proposed arrangement implied the abandonment of any attempt to introduce a decimal coinage?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  understood that Mr. Hawksley proposed to take the water from the lower end of the Serpentine and pump it up to the upper end, filtering it in its progress; but the right hon. Gentleman assumed that the sewage could be treated in the same manner, and with the same result, which he (Mr. Griffith) did not think Mr. Hawksley contemplated.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, the course which it was proposed to adopt with regard to the Serpentine was exactly the reverse of what any hon. Member would do in the case of ornamental water in his own grounds. There the first thing that would be thought of was, in case there was a sewer, to cut off the foul water and to increase the supply of pure water. Here, however, the sewer was to continue flowing into the Serpentine for years. It seemed strange to suppose that a sufficiency of pure water could not be obtained by pumping to obviate this disagreeable necessity.
 MR. ROBERTSON : I would take the liberty of suggesting to the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, that in the event of his again bringing forward his Motion he should include in it all cases in which Election Petitions have been presented to this House and subsequently withdrawn. I am of opinion that the House ought to consider the subject generally, and without any reference to individual cases.
 MR. CARDWELL  hoped the presence of the clause would not induce the hon, Gentleman to divide. He thought it exceedingly open to the attention and consideration of the House. He did not think it at all advisable that the Divorce Court should be extended to Ireland, or that this was the best way of doing it; but that was a question which could be discussed in Committee, and therefore need not delay the second reading of a measure for the better management of the Court of Divorce in England.
 MR. CARDWELL  repeated that he was willing to give an assurance that the Government would not advocate the clause in Committee for extending the Bill to Ireland.
 MR. CARDWELL  intimated his willingness to consent to the expulsion of the clause.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  considered that the Chief Commissioner was a little unfairly dealt with in this matter. The right hon. Gentleman had consulted an eminent hydraulic engineer and had taken the best advice, and there was no reason for supposing that the scheme proposed would not be effectual. If it were postponed until the House were agreed as to the plan, considering the conflict of opinion that prevailed, the Serpentine would never be purified. He thought the matter might be safely left in the hands of the Chief Commissioner.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  hoped the House would not agree to the Vote. There was no analogy between this Vote and that for the Serpentine, which latter was a national object free to the enjoyment of the nation; whereas the Crinan Canal was neither more nor less than a public highway, the trustees of which had the power of levying and did levy high tolls on every ship and person passing through. These over-ruling accidents like the one on which the present Vote was sought, would be constantly occurring if companies were to look to public grants to repair them. The canal was a water highway which shortened the distance between Loch Fine and the Caledonian Canal, and you never heard of any Commissioners of Highways coming to the House for public grant.
 COLONEL FRENCH  objected to the Vote. A good many people did not know what or where the Crinan Canal was. The Crinan Canal was a private speculation of the Campbell family; and in 1815 the then Duke of Argyll applied to the Treasury for £18,000 to complete the canal, and also for a further sum of £5,800 to pay off a debt then due on it. The Treasury sent an engineer down to examine the canal, who reported favourably; and these two sums of money were then advanced by the Treasury to the Duke of Argyll, on the condition that the profits should go to pay the interest of the money advanced. However, the concern had never yielded anything back to the Exchequer—in fact, had never paid it3 expenses; and considering we had spent £24,000 and £12,000 more were now required, would it not be better to hand it over to private parties; that was to say, if they could get anybody to take it. At the same time, he would not now oppose the Vote.
 COLONEL FRENCH : Sir, I think that the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield ought to be satisfied with the adjournment of the debate if he is not satisfied with the assurance which the House has received from the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The hon. and learned Gentleman has had all he could wish for in the assurance that in this and all similar cases the Chiltern Hundreds will not be granted. The right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has stated that this question is a general question. I agree that it is a general question, but in substance it is a personal question. The name of an hon. Member of this House has been stated. Notice has been sent to him that this mat-
 959
 MR. HADFIELD : I beg to second the Motion.
 MR. HADFIELD  objected to the whole country being called on to pay for improvements in London. It was reported that part of the expenses was incurred in consequence of some mistakes in the plans or execution.
 MR. GEORGE HOPE : Sir, I trust that the House will allow me to make one or two observations, as the subject of an Election Petition is now under its consideration. It has been thrown out by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, and is well known in this House, that Petitions, although they charge corruption, are often presented without any corruption being known to exist, and without any intention on the part of their authors of proceeding with them. This is precisely what has occurred in my own case. I am not going to trouble the House with my individual grievance, but I consider myself to have been very ill-used by the presentation of a Petition against my own return. That Petition was withdrawn without my knowledge, and without my having been in any way consulted on the subject. No compromise whatever was made by me. It was altogether the act of the petitioners themselves. Now, see in what position I should be placed if the rule suggested by my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Belfast were adopted. One injury has been done me by the presentation of the Petition, and I should have a continuance of that grievance merely by the wrongful act of the Petition having been presented, and then there would be added the deprivation of a privilege enjoyed by other Members. I do not object to the principle of suspense in granting the application in every case of a Member against whom a Petition has been presented, and withdrawn, but there should be some limit to it. Do not let it be said that a man who has been unjustly stigmatized by the presentation of a Petition against his return on the ground of corrupt practices shall be further stigmatized by a Resolution of the House declaring that he shall not be allowed to accept certain office for which other Members might at any moment successfully apply. Sir, as I said before, I do not rise for the purpose of troubling the House with my individual grievance, but I am perfectly prepared to stand any inquiry into the proceedings at my election. An investigation into my own case would give me great satisfaction.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, he hoped that whatever the style of architecture adopted the building would be worthy of the wealth and high character of the country. For himself he approved the design of Mr. Scott, who had the highest reputation as a Gothic architect. The noble Lord (Lord Elcho) condemned the plan, but he retained the architect. Now he (Mr. Bruce) ventured to express a hope that if Mr. Scott were retained as the architect he would be permitted to carry out a design congenial to his own taste. They must take care not to fall into the mistake committed in regard to Sir Christopher Wren who, having great reputation as a Palladian architect had been employed to erect two Gothic towers to Westminster Abbey. Naturally he performed the work in the most unsuccessful manner, and his two cumbrous erections were a great disparagement to the beauty
 927
 MR. WILSON  said, that as many items as possible had been taken out of the Civil Contingencies and made matter of Estimate. If the House insisted on having unascertained charges placed in the Estimates, it would always be necessary to take a Vote large enough to cover the highest calculation of them; and the result would be that the House would never get any account. The present was the only mode in which such charges could be brought under the surveillance of the House.
 MR. BRADY  said, that the best reason for objecting to the Vote was to be found in the following lines of the Report of the engineer:—"It has been impossible to trace the failure to any more immediate cause than the original imperfection of the embankment. "The money now asked for might, therefore, be as well thrown into the canal at once.
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, in many of the reasons which have been stated why the House should not agree to the Resolution
 963 964
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty whether the Government are prepared to carry into effect the recommen lations of the late board of Admiralty respecting the treatment of Catholic Sailors in the Royal Navy?
 MR. HENNESSY  said, In rising, Sir, to move the rejection of this Bill, I am ready at once to acknowledge the general accuracy with which the learned Gentleman has described it. He says, very truly, that it is a Bill which tends to facilitate and to render more extensive in its action an important Act of Parliament. Believing that such is the case, but believing also that the Act thus to be rendered more powerful is the worst Act of Parliament which Her Majesty has ever sanctioned—believing it to be an Act which, on political, social, moral, and religious grounds, should never have been passed, I cannot hesitate about moving that this supplementary Bill be read this day three months. I do not think it necessary to go at any length into the general question involved in the Bill. In its present shape I object to the fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh clauses. The fifth clause, which states that the Court for the sake of decency may hold its sittings with closed doors, is a fair indication of the character of the Court. The sixth clause gives to the Judge a power of controlling the education of the children of divorced parties, which may, under certain circumstances, be most objectionable. The seventh clause provides what seems to me to be a most inadequate and delusive check on collusion. But it is to the fourth clause I am most anxious to call the attention of the House. That clause says, "All per-
 995
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he would press his Amendment to a division.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, that if a new copper coinage were substituted for the old, and a decimal system were hereafter introduced, the whole of that copper must again be called in and passed through the Mint; and he did not think there were any possible means of avoiding that except resorting to the very awkward plan of stamping the coin by its new designation. If the House and the Government accepted the new copper coinage, they would in fact be accepting the entire condemnation of the decimal system, at all events during the existence of the present generation.
 MR. JOHN LOCKE  regretted that the hon. Member for Stirlingshire (Mr. Blackburn) was not in his place, for he was fond of repeating that Scotland never got any of the public money; but this was a Vote exclusively for her benefit, and if, as the hon. Member had argued, the Thames ought to be purified by a rate on the metropolis, the cost of repairing the Crinan
 975
 MR. ROEBUCK : My Resolution does not touch any particular seat.
 MR. ROEBUCK : I quite agree with several hon. Members as to the necessity of an adjournment, and I think that this discussion will do great good. I hope and trust that the noble Lord at the head of the Government will consent to the resumption of the debate at an early hour tomorrow.
 MR. ROEBUCK : I now move "That the hon. Member for Bodmin (Dr. Michell), be required to appear in his place in this House to-morrow."
 MR. ROEBUCK : I rise, Sir, for the purpose of bringing to the notice of the House a matter which affects their privileges—and I intend to finish the observations which I have to make with a Motion relating to that subject. Sir, it will be in the recollection of the House, that a Petition was presented against the return of the hon. Member for Bodmin. It will also be in the recollection of the House that that Petition has been withdrawn. Now, Sir, it has come to my knowledge, and I believe that what I am now about to state is perfectly accurate and true, that the hon. Member for Bodmin, having been charged with bribery, and corruption, and treating, has agreed to a compromise that he shall, at the end of the Session, in consideration of the withdrawal of that Petition, retire from the seat which he now holds in this House—that he shall thereupon apply for, and receive the Chiltern Hundreds—that that shall cause his retirement—that in consideration of his so doing, the persons presenting the Petition shall withdraw that Petition. Now, Sir, it seems to me that this is what I have been accustomed to call a corrupt compromise, that an hon. Gentleman having acquired by improper means the power of sitting in this House, that by improper means having acquired that power, he allows a Petition so charging him to be presented to the House, he enters into, all the requisite forms for the purpose of meeting that Petition, and at the last moment he retires because he is afraid that the statements contained in that Petition may be verified before a Committee of this House. Now, Sir, a person doing this, I say, does that which clearly impugns and weakens the privileges of this House. It weakens this
 946 947
 MR. ROEBUCK : I have.
 MR. ROEBUCK : I have done so.
 MR. ROEBUCK : I will tell the House exactly what I have done. Now, mark! A Petition—a very solemn proceeding—distinctly charges an hon. Member with corrupt practices for the purpose of securing his election. It charges him with bribery, corruption, and treating: that is the first step. The next is, that after steps have been taken to try that Petition, the Member so charged retires. Now, those are two things.
 MR. ROEBUCK : The Petition is withdrawn ["No, no!"] Wait a moment. The Petition is withdrawn, and then a Member of this House gets up in his place and says, "I have good reason to believe that a corrupt compromise has been entered into between the sitting Member and the persons who presented that Petition." Sir, that is what I state now. I do believe that a corrupt compromise has been entered into between Dr. Michell and the persons who presented this Petition. Well, now, those are the steps. Well, now, if at the end of the Session the hon. Member for Bodmin comes to the Chancellor of the Exchequer and asks him to grant him the office of the Chiltern Hundreds, have we not here the nail driven right home? Can there be a man who can doubt that a corrupt compromise, which I say I believe to have been entered into, has been entered into? Will the Chancellor of the Exchequer get up in his place and say that he believes that? Oh! I know he will say that he has no belief in the matter. But, Sir, I say that there is not one man in this House who when he goes home and talks over these matters with his friends will not say that he believes every word that I have said on the present occasion to be true. Well, then, Sir, I want to know whether it is not the duty of this House to throw every possible obstruction in the way of such a proceeding. What harm can happen if the matter is inquired into? Docs the Chancellor of the Exchequer believe that men go to the expense of getting up a Petition and afterwards withdraw it, and then that the Member applies for the Chiltern Hundreds without some consideration? Does the Chancellor of the Exchequer believe that any innocent man would be
 955
 MR. VANCE  thought it was very desirable to shorten the passage between Ireland and this country as much as possible, and as the ports in question were the two nearest points of the two countries he thought it very desirable to complete the accommodation proposed.
 MR. VANCE  proposed to introduce a clause giving compensation to the clerks of proctors in Ireland, who had been reduced to a pitiable state by the recent Act, admitting solicitors to practise in the ecclesiastical courts.
 MR. WISE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for war when the Report of the Royal Commissioners appointed to inquire into the state of the Books and stores at Weedon, Woolwich and the Tower will be presented to Parliament?
 MR. WISE  supposed that this money was "loose cash" in the pockets of the Treasury. He wished to ask the Secretary of the Treasury if there was any prospect of the sum advanced to the Monte Videan Government being repaid, and also whether there was any chance of the £2,000 advanced in 1857 for the chapel at Paris being reimbursed. He complained of the large sums that were laid out upon diplomatic expenses and outfits. He saw the sum of £2,200 put down for the Chancellor of the Exchequer's Mission to the Ionian Islands. The Committee ought to have some explanation as to the necessity for that Mission. At any rate he trusted some good had or would result from it. There was a sum put down for expenses connected with the settlement of the differences between Turkey and Persia, though similar charges had been made before. The truth was, the sums payable for these Civil Contingencies could not be understood unless the expenses for several years were collated. He saw £9,000 put down as the charge for Sir Henry Bulwer's mission to the Danubian Principalities, of the result of which the House had never been informed.
 CAPTAIN LEICESTER VERNON  said, that the great value of Alderney was not so much as a harbour of refuge as a great military outwork that commanded naval motions at Cherbourg, where it was scarcely possible for a gun to be fired without its smoke being seen at Alderney. From what he had heard Sir John Burgoyne say, he could corroborate the statements of the hon. and gallant Member (Colonel Dunne) with regard to the number of men that would be sufficient for the garrison of Alderney. 2,500 men could garrison it completely, and when the works were finished it would be as difficult to take Alderney as Gibraltar itself.
 MR. SMOLLETT , as Member for a neighbouring county to that represented by the hon. Member for Stirlingshire, although generally agreeing with him in opposing public expenditure, should vote for this grant.
 MR. BLACKBURN  thought that the expenses of this bridge ought to be borne by the counties of Middlesex and Surrey, and not thrown upon the public funds. If those counties would not pay the expenses of its construction, they ought, at all events, to pay for its maintenance; and he would suggest that the Government, having completed the bridge,  &c,
 MR. BLACKBURN  inquired why this
 916
 MR. BLACKBURN  was of opinion that in erecting a national building of this kind they ought not to evince a niggardly spirit—they should have a building worthy of the country, and one which their descendants should not be ashamed to look at; and if such a building as was required could be erected for £250,000, or even £300,000, as he was led to suppose from the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he did not think that was too large an amount to devote to such a purpose. He feared that with respect to these buildings they might be led into the same error which had been committed in the case of the Houses of Parliament, and that after an architect had been selected, instead of being left to attend to his own duty, he would be exposed to interference on the part of persons who proposed plans and schemes of their own. Without expressing any opinion as to the Gothic or classical styles of architecture, he thought that, having obtained a good architect, the best course would be to allow him to erect a handsome building on the condition that it should be suitable for the purposes required, and should not exceed in cost the amount of the estimate.
 MR. MALINS  said, that he had anticipated that great public evils would arise from passing the Act constituting the Court, and experience justified his anticipations. When they saw, day after day, that marriages were dissolved quicker than they were solemnized, they might well look with alarm at the institution of the Court. It would, however, be exceedingly wrong of the House, unless they were prepared to repeal the original Act, to put any obstacle in the way of passing the clauses of this Bill, so far as it increased the number of Judges who might sit in the full Court.
 MR. TORRENS  said, he would beg to ask the Seretary or State for India whether it is intended to increase the strength of the Regiment of Bengal Artillery; also when it is intended to distribute the Delhi and the Lucknow Prize Money and the Medals for services in the field against the Mutineers, which some time ago were promised to the Troops?
 MR. LAING  said, that with regard to Dovor, all that was contemplated was to complete the contract which was now going on for the Admiralty pier. There was not the least idea of constructing a harbour of refuge there at the present time; and if hereafter such an idea were entertained—which he did not anticipate—nothing would be done without giving the House of Commons the opportunity of first pronouncing an opinion. In reference to Alderney he could not pretend to give an opinion upon it, so far as the military part of the question was concerned. The real state of facts was that the harbour was more for the purpose of defence than a harbour of refuge with reference to commercial purposes. The estimate for constructing it was £1,300,000, and the amount already expended was £800,000.
 MR. LAING  said, these were not Estimates for the ensuing year, but details of a sum of £100,000 actually expended before the present Government came into office, and which it was not, therefore, for him to explain. Whilst he (Mr. Laing) advocated economy quite as much as the hon. Gentleman, still he felt that there must always be a number of petty items such as these, which would be always occurring in the expenditure of a great nation. The outfit for Foreign Ministers had been considered for many years fair and equitable, and a great nation could hardly avoid defraying these and similar little expenses in a liberal way. The hon. Gentleman asked why the expenses of the Royal Household, not provided for in the Civil List, had not been put into the usual Estimates. Well, take the case of the ex-
 989
 MR. LAING  said, there was a good deal in the suggestion of his hon. predecessor (Sir Stafford Northcote), that many of the sums included in the Civil Contingencies were of annual recurrence, and ought to appear as estimates. He would see that that and the other suggestions thrown out in the course of the discussion were duly attended to if he should have any share in preparing the next Estimates.
 MR. LAING  said, that the embankment
 976
 MR. LAING  said, that an extraordinary flood had carried away the works of the canal, and the late Government, believing the restoration of those works to be urgently needed, allowed a sum of £12,000 for the purpose. A proposal had been made that the canal should be increased in size and adapted for large ships at an outlay of £80,000; but the Government thought that this would involve too large an expenditure of public money, and refused to sanction it.
 MR. LAING  thought he might save a good deal of discussion on this vote by declaring that no portion of the money would be applied to anything that might prejudice the appeal now pending to the Queen in Council. No expenditure would be incurred except for urgent repairs.
 MR. ALCOCK  said, that Parliament had taken the bridge estate, and it would be entirely out of the question for the two counties of Middlesex and Surrey to receive the bridge back  minus
 MR. ALCOCK  felt that it was the duty of the Government to make a good and complete job of this matter, and thoroughly to cleanse the Serpentine, the water of
 971
 MR. ALCOCK  objected that the Bill gave the power to impose tolls on turnpike roads on which no debt was due. There were cases in which a small debt was kept up on purpose to give the right to impose the toll. He would move as an Amendment that the Act do not continue beyond November, 1860, to any trust, except in cases where the bond debts due remained unliquidated, or amounted to less than one year's income.
 MR. HANKEY  wished to know whether the new coinage would be struck at the Mint or by private contractors. It might be more advisable to have it made at Birmingham than at the Mint. He thanked the right hon. Gentleman for having taken the matter up.
 MR. HANKEY  said, that every Member must recollect the extreme anxiety which prevailed in the last Parliament to have a telegraphic communication with Gibraltar. Considering our peculiar situation in the Mediterranean, and that it was of the utmost national importance in the event of a war with France, and considering that as a commercial speculation it never could pay, although he was unwilling to sanction any anticipation of the decision of the House with regard to the expenditure of money, he thought that if ever an exception could be made out it was in this case. He hoped the Committee would agree to the Vote.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was afraid it would be necessary for him to make a short statement to the Committee on the subject, but it was one which he had great confidence would be satisfactory. He had the greatest pleasure in proposing this Vote, which he ought to tell the Committee would be £10,000 instead of £50,000. It was immaterial which sum it was, as the profit to be derived would more than cover the expense, and there was no real charge connected with it. The estimate was reduced, because at first it was thought that in order to carry on operations with energy and rapidity it was desirable to purchase presses and supply them to the contractors, which, on further inquiry, was found not to be necessary. The Committee had, without doubt, observed when they had occasion to handle the copper coin of the country that a great deal of it was in a very bad condition, and disfigured by advertising inscriptions stamped upon it. He had a specimen of one of Her Majesty's pennies, and there appeared round the edges " Lloyd's Weekly 979 Newspaper, 980 981
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : £115,000 has already been contracted for.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would take this occasion to state the position in reference to the Vote which the present Government occupied. When the present Government assumed the reins of office they had found that arrangements had been entered into by their predecessors with a house in London for the manufacture of a cable 1,200 miles long, which was estimated to be sufficient to extend from Falmouth to Gibraltar. The actual cost of the cable was contracted for at £115,000; so that the Committee would
 977
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was proposed to execute a certain portion of the work at the Mint, because the Government had there establishments, presses, and power. The great bulk of it, however, would be executed out of the Mint by contract, and he presumed a large share of it would be done at Birmingham.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was of opinion that little life remained in the scheme of a decimal coinage after the operation which had been performed upon it by Lord Overstone, But
 982
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the principle on which the Vote was founded was simple. He could understand that hon. Gentlemen might criticise the practice of annual payments, which the House was called on to make, and be anxious to get some of these burdens off the public. But that was not the question now. The Crinan Canal did not require an annual Vote, but the present Vote was for the purpose of repairing the effect of a sudden accident; and the question was, whether the House would allow the traffic of the canal to be stopped, and the canal itself to go to ruin, for want of timely reparation. That would be irrational. The late Government would have been inexcusable if they had not ordered the repairs. It was true they had done so without the authority of the House, and very properly, for the case was one which did not admit of delay.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The Member has not retired.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I am not sure that the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has adhered very successfully to the pledge which he gave the House at the commencement of his speech, that
 952 953 primâ facie 954 primâ facie
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was very much obliged to the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Wise) for having noticed the expenditure for the late mission to the
 985
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Committee would think themselves very fortunate indeed if they could flatter themselves that it would build the Foreign Office. He would take this opportunity of explaining what the present Vote was, and in what position the Government proposed to leave the general question, with respect to the erection of the new Foreign Office. The chief part of the present Vote would be required for the preparation of the ground. It was well known that the foundations of the buildings in that part of London, where the new Office was to be erected, were very bad, and in order to raise there a solid and durable structure it was necessary to prepare a bed of concrete on which the building should rest. That was a costly work, and it was for preparatory proceedings, and the one he had just mentioned chiefly that the present money was wanted. With respect to the expense of the building, he would state how the matter stood, and it was so far satisfactory as to be able to say that the Government were in the position, for the first time in the history of public
 919 920
 MR. CONINGHAM  observed, that after the architects, not only of this country, but of Europe, had been invited to compete, and had been put to considerable expense in furnishing designs for the new Foreign Office, the designs of the principal prizemen had been cast aside, and the decision of the judges had been reversed. It was evident that Mr. Scott had been selected as the architect because the building was to be in the Gothic style, but the moment that decision was set aside then the question of the appointment of the architect should be fully and fairly considered. He congratulated the noble Lord at the head of the Government on his spirited resistance to any further invasion of the Goths and Vandals. He trusted that the noble Lord would adhere to the answer he gave to the deputation, and not allow a whole street of Gothic architecture to be added to the over-decorated and overdone House in which they were now assembled. All the common sense of the House and of the country was against the adoption of the Gothic style for the new Foreign Office.
 MR. CONINGHAM  asked, whether the sewer was to be diverted from the river.
 MR. CONINGHAM  controverted the assertion that Gothic architecture was be-
 941
 MR. CONINGHAM  ventured to remind the Committee that the proposed improvement in the Serpentine would not separate the rain water from the sewage, which would still continue to find its way into and pollute that river, He was prepared to admit that the plan might be a palliative, but it would never be a remedy until the sewage matter was otherwise disposed of.
 THE CHAIRMAN  stated that it was not competent to the hon. Member to introduce such a clause.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that on that understanding he would not oppose the Vote.
 MR. TITE  said, that the noble Lord who had just sat down had attacked him because he (Mr. Tite) had abandoned Gothic architecture and was opposed to it, though by means of it he had obtained his
 924 925 coup d' œil
 MR. TITE  said, the work was one of great public convenience, and not at all in connection with the Palace.
 MR. TITE  said, that the delay in the progress of the works was caused by the failure of the contractor, a circumstance over which the Board of Works could have no control.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  inquired whether £30,000 formed the cost of the building, or whether that was merely a sum on account?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  was strongly of the same opinion.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, they had been told years ago that the sum then voted for Donaghadee was the last that would be asked. He quite agreed with the gallant General, and thought this would be merely the occasion of wasting large sums of public money.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, it seemed to him that the main point with the two hon. Baronets who had addressed the House, was to get a vote for a larger sum of public money; but if any money at all were voted for this object, he strongly approved of the plan of the Government, especially as one of the most eminent engineers of the day (Mr. Hawksley) had reported in favour of it.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  thought it was high time to make a stand against grants for the repair of this canal. The receipts of the work had for several years been less than the sum expended in repairing it. Last year, however, there had been a gain on it of £88 5 s. d.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  remarked that £135,000 was not a very small sum.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, this was a reason why the whole question should be left to the Committee. He asked whether the Government and the House were responsible for the contract. He thought the Vote should be withdrawn till the Report of the Committee had been arrived at; and if the Government did not withdraw it he hoped the House would place on it their negative.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  complained of the continued appearance for several years of a charge—£2,000 this year—for settlement of disputes between Turkey and Persia, a matter in which we had no interest. Other items, too, were out of place in this Vote; such as a charge for fitting up St. James's Palace and Chapel on the occasion of the Princess Royal's marriage. The charge should have been included among the expenses of Royal Palaces. He saw a sum of £1,220 for the Commission appointed for the University of Cambridge, which he thought ought to be defrayed out of the
 988 s. d.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he would let the hon. Member off for this time, as the money was not of his spending; but he gave him warning that if his own Contingency Estimates were not in better order next year, he should hear more about them.
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, Commissioners had been sent down to examine this matter, and they decided to be in favour of Donaghadee and Portpatrick. Parliament had acted on their decision, and it was now too late to disturb the arrangement.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, I do not think that the hon. and learned Gentleman has a right to assume that in this case there has been a corrupt compromise, and that our proceedings are a sham, because we do not happen to agree in his mode of treating the subject. All we want is, that the fact should be established before we either punish the delinquent or take measures which imply guilt. The hon. and learned Gentleman states it to be his belief that a corrupt compromise has been entered into in the case of Bodmin, and thereupon he proposes a resolution which assumes the whole case. He takes up the matter contained in the Petition, and then assumes that the charges which it contains are true. I trust that the House will look to the course that it took in 1842 on the Motion of the hon. and learned Member himself, and he sought to establish the facts of the case by means of a parliamentary inquiry. In that case also it must be remembered that the Members against whom the inquiries were directed were present in the House; the charges were stated to them; some declined to answer the interrogatories which were addressed to them, while others denied the charge; and upon these grounds it was, in a great measure, that the House proceeded to act, and a Committee of inquiry was appointed. Now, in the present case the hon. Gentleman who represents Bodmin is clearly not in the House, or he would have risen before this, and have taken part in the discussion. The hon. and learned Gentleman says, that he gave the hon. Member for Bodmin notice that he would bring the matter forward today. Whether the hon. and learned Gentleman addressed him a letter saying that he intended to bring the matter forward to-day we do not know. No doubt if the hon. Member for Bodmin—[Mr. ROEBUCK: I wrote a letter to him.] Well, notwithstanding that, we cannot be aware that
 956 957
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  observed that he had done his best to give the metropolis a Metropolitan Board, but he thought it would be difficult for the Board to satisfy its constituents when a matter of taxation was concerned.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, it seemed that the expenditure would be £482,000, including the approaches on the west side of the bridge. He wished to know whether this included also the approaches on the other side, and if not, how much they would cost? The House gradually got entangled in heavy expenses by being merely the registrar of expenses over which it had no control. There appeared to be no reason why Middlesex and Surrey should not, like every other county, pay for their own bridges. However, he wished to obtain from the Government some pledge that the expense would not exceed the very large sum he had mentioned. The whole fee simple of the bridge estate, of the value of £172,000, the proceeds of which used to keep the bridge in repair, would now be gone, and deducting that sum from £482,000, the balance to be provided out of the public purse was £310,000. As he understood there remained £174,000 to be voted besides the votes of this year. He wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman opposite whether £482,000 would complete the works?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that this embankment seemed to be some improvement of the town of Windsor, and it was not fair to impose the charge on the taxpayers of the country.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : I think, Sir, that the right hon. Baronet has somewhat misconceived the grounds on which the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield has brought forward this Motion. If the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman were directed against the hon. Member for Bodmin, then I apprehend that the House could not advance a single step in the matter until we were satisfied that the hon. Member had received due notice of the intention to bring forward such a charge. I, however, do not understand that that is really the question before the House. What I do understand is this: the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield says, that it is his belief that the hon. Member for Bodmin is about to apply to the Government for the Chiltern Hundreds in consequence of the withdrawal of a certain Petition before the House, and that it is necessary that the House, if it would not be baffled in its inquiry into such subjects, should lay down some general rule applicable to such cases as that to which he has adverted. primâ facie 958 primâ facie primâ facie primâ facie
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : No; it does not touch any particular seat.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that as all the Members of the House had not had the happy privilege which had been enjoyed by the hon. Baronet, the Member for Fins-bury (Sir S. M. Peto), of reading Mr. Hawksley's Report, he thought that this Vote ought to be postponed until that document had been printed and circulated. As far as he understood the plan proposed by Mr. Hawksley, which was entirely novel and had come quite suddenly upon them, it was that the water of the Serpentine, after running through the lake, should be pumped up to the top, filtered, and allowed to run through again, the same water being kept continually passing backwards and forwards. He could not at once condemn a plan which was sanctioned by so great an authority as Mr. Hawksley; but he certainly doubted the possibility of finding a filter bed at a sufficient height above the Serpentine, and he was sure that not one but two filters would be needed. The plan pursued in St. James's Park had, he believed, answered completely, and if this job was to be done at all it would be much better to do it properly. The bottom ought to be levelled; and a supply of water might be pumped from St. James's Park through the pipes which used to convey water from the Serpentine for the supply of the fountain in front of Buckingham Palace, and which still remained in the ground. It appeared to him far better to have a fresh supply of water, than that the same water should be pumped from time to time from the lower to the upper part of the Serpentine. Under all the circumstances, and as he was informed he could not move the postponement of the Vote, he should certainly negative it.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, the Government plan had come upon him by surprise, and he thought that they should have more materials for forming an opinion before they voted the money. They were asked to vote the money upon the name of Mr. Hawksley without even seeing his opinion or consulting any other engineer. He thought the Vote should be postponed until the production of Mr. Hawksley's Report. Under these circumstances he should oppose the Vote.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY , as a member of the Committee on this subject, could not agree with the noble Lord that a large majority of that Committee were in favour of adopting the Gothic style of architecture, and he thought the matter ought to have received more mature consideration before the plan of Mr. Scott had been adopted. As to the case of Mr. Penne-thorne, he believed a strong opinion was entertained by the Committee that, as they advertised for designs, and as premiums had been awarded, the gentlemen who had engaged in the competition and had obtained prizes, were entitled to a preference over architects who had not competed. He thought—and he believed that was the impression of the Committee—that there was no necessity for providing in the new building a residence for the Foreign Minister, although it might be desirable to provide commodious rooms for official receptions. He apprehended that no one was likely to be appointed Foreign Secretary who had not already a private residence of his own in which he would prefer
 926
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  said, he was not about to enter into the vexed question as to whether the Gothic or any other style of architecture was best suited for public buildings, but, having examined Mr. Scott's plans in all their details, he must say that they appeared to him to carry out completely the intentions of the House. The noble Lord at the head of the Government first, and afterwards the hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Tite), had objected to a Gothic building on the ground that it did not afford the same facilities for lighting and ventilation as an edifice in the classical style. On this point he had examined the plan of Mr. Scott in detail; and he could assure the Committee that the system of
 940
 MR. CROSS  said, that there was a strong feeling out of doors in favour of the design of Mr. Scott, and the objections which were urged against the plan in that House appeared, in his opinion, to arise from the ignorance of hon. Members respecting the character of Gothic architecture, which, he contended, was not so monotonous in its character as had been stated by some hon. Gentlemen.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, that the hon. Member had referred to the privilege which he had had of seeing Mr. Hawks-ley's Report. When the right hon. Gentleman, the First Commissioner of Works placed that Report in his hands, he asked him to give an opinion as to the practical working of the plan; and feeling the responsibility of so doing, and knowing that there was a variety of opinions upon the subject, he (Sir S. M. Peto) thought it right to consult the first engineering authority in this country—Mr. Robert Stephenson. Mr. Robert Stephenson devoted two days to the examination of the
 970
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, it had come to his knowledge that the plan of the works at Alderney had been altered no less than five times since the original contract was entered into, and the consequence was that the shape of the harbour next the sea, instead of being convex, was concave. There were rocks also so situated at its mouth that if a ship on attempting to enter made too much lee way she was sure to drift upon them.
 SIR MORTON PETO , who had a Motion on the paper "that Mr. Speaker do issue his Warrant to the Clerk of the Crown to make out a New Writ for the electing of a Citizen to serve in this present Parliament for the City of Norwich, in the room of Henry William Schneider, Esq., whose Election has been determined to be void," said that since he had placed that Motion on the Votes, he had received such communications from Norwich as had convinced him that it would be for the character of the House and the welfare of the inhabitants of that city that the issue of the writ should remain suspended until the House had heard the evidence taken before the Committee, and also until the claim of the other seat had been decided on public grounds.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  could not but think, however, that some sort of an average of this branch of expenditure might be carried out.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that although he was one of the three Commissioners, he was afraid he could not give the hon. Member for Gateshead very minute details as to the expenditure referred to. He must correct the hon. and learned Attorney General on one point. It was not the fact that the Commissioners were unpaid. Two of the three Commissioners—namely, Mr. Follettand himself, were paid. He was not a member of the House at the time of his appointment by the late Government. When his right hon. Friend the Member for Durham (Mr. Mowbray) undertook this inquiry he (Sir Stafford Northcote) was called from abroad to assist him. He certainly could not have undertaken that very laborious office, which involved remaining in town for several months and very close attendance, without receiving some compensation for his services. He could assure the hon. and learned Attorney General that far from being a simple matter, it was a most laborious operation, involving considerable research and occupying much time. It was far more than the mere simple process of referring to the returns of the Income Tax Commissioners. They had to separate the profits which both proctors and solicitors earned in the Ecclesiastical Court from those that they earned, for instance, in the Admiralty Court; and they had also to calculate the capital employed, and to separate the interest on that capital from the profits for which alone the claimants ought to be compensated. This was very far from being an easy work. It would have been if they had adopted the usual Treasury mode of doing the work—that is, to take the statements of the claimants, and to see that they in some tolerable degree corresponded with the evidence produced in support of them. Had the Commissioners taken that course, he had no hesitation in saying that the sum voted for compensation would have been half as much again as it was. As one instance of the manner in which they proceeded, he might state that a gentleman who claimed £3500 a year for compensation, went away satisfied that he ought only to receive £1500. He wished to call the attention of the Secretary to the Treasury to the
 987
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  wished to observe, that as these Votes extended over a period of twelve months, during the first ten of which he was unconnected with the office, he was in a worse situation than the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Laing) with regard to explaining them.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he was himself somewhat favourable to the Palladian style, but he thought they should not lose sight of the fact that the House had before it a design in most excellent taste, and he hoped the House would not throw away the chance of having such a handsome building raised, without knowing upon what they were likely to fall back after rejecting it. He trusted they would not recur to the plan which obtained the first premium, which he thought most objectionable. He understood that the noble Lord at the head of the Government on a former occasion instanced in favour of the Italian style a number of edifices raised in this metropolis. Was the National Gallery among those edifices? He referred to that building to show that they were not always sure of securing a good building by adopting the Italian style. He had noticed with great pleasure how much Mr. Scott's design had been improved from the first drawing by being rendered more simple. He was quite willing to agree to the present Vote on the condition that it was to be clearly understood that nothing would be done to commit the House or the Government to
 928
 MR. HUTT  expressed himself perfectly satisfied with the explanations offered by the hon. Gentleman opposite.
 MR. HUTT  called upon the Attorney General to explain the necessity of expending £2,300 in ascertaining the claims for compensation under the Act for the Abolition of the Ecclesiastical Court.
 MR. STIRLING  calculated that the expenses already incurred for premiums for the designs, and other matters connected with them, could not be much under £10,000. The question then was whether, after having got a good thing of its kind at a very great expense to the country they were to throw it aside as altogether worthless, because the noble Lord at the head of the Government happened to have a prejudice in favour of the classic style of architecture. But did the House know as much about the probable cost of the building as it ought to know? He could not help thinking that the sum of £30,000 now proposed for a concrete foundation was a very large sum; but even with that the House did not know but what they were opening a bottomless pit, such as they had taken in hand when they commenced building the Houses of Parliament. He observed in the newspapers that a tabernacle was about to be erected for Mr. Spurgeon for £21,000, and the concrete foundation was to cost £500. According to this proportion between the costs of the foundation and of the structure, the new Foreign Office would occasion an expenditure of somewhat like £1,200,000. With regard to the question of style, he was fond of both styles of architecture. He knew that there was a very natural prejudice against Gothicism, and certainly anything more wearisome than that House, with its sacrifice of convenience to a constant repetition of insipid ornament, could not be conceived; but, as regards light, he thought that that House had been somewhat unfairly treated, and in the committee-rooms there was positively more light let in than was often wanted. With respect to Mr. Scott's design, it was shown distinctly in the last discussion that the windows in his buildings were larger and admitted more light than the windows in any other building in London. With respect to the cost of the particular design, a work written before the competition showed that from
 929 Remarks on Secular and Domestic Architecture: "In external character a noble simplicity is greatly to be preferred to extreme elaboration. I have never, in the domestic architecture of the best periods of mediseval art, seen what would be called rich external decoration otherwise than very sparingly used for a few special parts, A tissue of costly ornament over the entire building I have never seen, and I am certain that it is destructive of true dignity."
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : NO; after the discussion in the House.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that nothing in the Vote now before the Committee in any way committed the House to the style or character of the building to be erected on the ground; and whatever his opinions might be—as strong they certainly were—with respect to the style best to be adopted, nothing would be done with respect to fixing on a plan until Parliament met again. In fact, before any building could be commenced, there must be another Vote for that express purpose sanctioned by the House. At the same time, the Committee had responded to the communication of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and had taken advantage of this opportunity to express their opinions as to the much-mooted question of style. Some hon. Gentlemen had advocated an adherence to Mr. Scott's plan on two grounds—first, because he was chosen as the architect, and it was contended that they must take the plan with the man; and, secondly, because the noble Lord opposite (Lord John Manners) lately at the head of the Department of Public Works had chosen to incur, without the sanction of the House, a considerable expense in plans and models, wherefore it was said that the House was committed to go on with the erection of the buildings. He did not think that reason at all valid, for supposing, for the sake of argument, that his opinion was right and that the building would be a great disfigurment to the metropolis, what satisfaction would it he to posterity a hundred years hence, who might lift up their hands with astonishment to think that the senators of 1859 could have sanctioned the erection of so frightful a building, to be told that the reason was because a noble Lord at the head of the Department of Works, who had a personal feeling for the architect, [Lord JOHN MANNERS: No!] or at any rate approved of a certain architect—did in order to induce the House of Commons to adopt the plan he liked, take on himself to order expenses not sanctioned by the House; and that
 931 facies non omnibus una nec diversa tamen. 932 933 934 935
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Then it was the duty undoubtedly of the hon. Member for Bodmin to have attended in his place if he were aware and had received timely notice that it was the intention of any hon. Member to charge him publicly in this House with a corrupt compromise in regard to his election. I apprehend that if the hon. Member for Bodmin had been in his place the proper course would have been for the hon. and learned Gentleman to have asked him to have stated that he had good reason to believe that the hon. Member for Bodmin had made such a corrupt compromises and to have asked him whether he acknowledged or disavowed the charge; and thereupon, according to the answer of the hon. Member for Bodmin the House would have dealt with the matter. But I should conceive that in any case the course which the House would have followed would have been much the same course as that which was pursued some years ago in similar cases upon the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman himself, that is to say, that a Committee would have been appointed to inquire into the case, to ascertain whether or not the Member charged had made a corrupt compromise for the withdrawal of the Petition against him; and undoubtedly, pending that inquiry, it would have been perfectly impossible for the Government to have assisted the Member who was so charged in evading the result of the inquiry by affording him the means of vacating his seat. I should, however, submit to the hon. and learned Gentleman and to the House, that in the present stage of the proceeding he has not laid with sufficient precision any ground for such a general Resolution as that which he now proposes, which indeed would leave the Government very much embarrassed as to its application, as to whom to apply it, how they were to ascertain that a Member had been charged, by whom he had been charged, and upon what ground he had been charged. And, therefore, I would suggest that the hon. and learned Gentleman should to-morrow request the hon. Member for Bodmin to appear in his place in this House, and that the hon. and learned Gentleman should then distinctly ask the hon. Member for Bodmin whether he admitted or denied the charge. The hon. and learned Gentleman has no doubt
 949 primâ facie
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he wished before the business of the evening was proceeded with to make an appeal to hon. Gentlemen who had Notices of Motion 011 the Paper on going into Supply, not
 945
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I apprehend that there can be no difference of opinion between the hon. and learned Gentleman and myself in regard to the principle contained in the Motion which he has made; that is to say, I quite agree with him that if any Member of this House is charged in a distinct and substantive manner, with such practices as those to which the Motion relates it would be perfectly unbecoming in a Minister of the Crown to enable that Member to evade the investigation, and the necessary condemnation of a Committee of this House appointed to inquire into the matter by giving him the Chiltern Hundreds or any other office that would vacate his seat. Therefore, I hope the hon. and learned Gentleman will understand that we are perfectly agreed as to the principle of the Motion which he has made. But with regard to the application of that principle and the manner in which the hon. and learned Gentleman proposes to apply it, I must beg to submit to the House that it does not appear to me that at present the hon. and learned Gentleman has laid any sufficient ground for calling upon the House to affirm a general Resolution such as he has proposed. If the hon. and learned Gentleman had intended to point this Resolution to the hon. Member for Bodmin, I apprehend that the course which he would naturally have pursued, and which he ought to have pursued,
 948
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, it was quite evident from the statement of the hon. Member for Coventry that there was a great difference of opinion as to the effect of the proposed proceeding. The hon. Member for Berkshire stated that he did not see what could be the use of pumping clean water into the Serpentine; but perhaps the hon. Member was not aware that it was not to be clean water, but the same water was to be pumped back again and again. To show the danger of the Serpentine in its present state he quoted the following paragraph from Mr. Page's
 1016 "Having, with the permission of Mr. Hawes, treasurer of the Royal Humane Society, applied to Mr. Williams, the society's superintendent in Hyde Park, for information as to the injurious effects of the depth of mud and of the irregularities in the depth of the water upon the bathers and skaters, I have received from him a communication, in which he states that, within his knowledge, which has extended over the last sixteen years, many lives have been sacrificed in consequence of the irregularities in the depth, especially on the northern side; and that, as thousands of children flock round the margin of the lake during the summer months, although many of them are saved from drowning by the society's boatmen, too many meet with a watery grave; that in consequence of the great quantity of mud in a semifluid state, even athletic and expert swimmers, when seized with cramp (and consequently sinking to the bottom), become entangled in the slimy matter, which so completely fills the mouth, nose, and ears as to render, in many instances, resuscitation impossible; and in those cases where animation is restored the constitution of the rescued person receives a shock from which it never recovers. The following account, furnished to me by Mr. Williams, shows the exact number of casualties from bathing, and the deaths from suicide during the last fifteen years. From this it will be seen that the total number of bathers is estimated at 3,963,689, or on an average 264,206 per annum; and that of the total number of accidents to bathers, 377 in number, 318 were saved, and 29 drowned; and of the total number of suicidal attempts, 273 in number, 185 were saved, and 88 ended fatally."
 MR. FITZROY  said, that this question had already been discussed in the Committee of Supply. He had the choice of two plans. One involved almost an unlimited expense with a doubtful result, and he certainly did not feel that he should be justified in proposing that to the House. He did not feel it right to propose a larger expenditure than that which he had proposed in the Vote for carrying out the plan proposed by Mr. Hawksley. The hon. Member for Coventry had over-estimated the expense of the proposed plan, for he understood that the annual expense for the pumping machinery for 200 days in the year would be no more than £200. No doubt it would be for the comfort of the
 1017
 MR. BEAMISH  seconded the Motion.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, the problem the Royal Commission on Manning the Navy were required to solve was, how to obtain a reserve sufficient for the emergencies of war at the smallest cost to the country, and with the least disturbance to its industrial resources during peace. He had the misfortune to differ with his colleagues on the Commission, and he thought they had not solved that problem. He thought his colleagues had failed because they had not fairly grappled with the question, what was the reason that the sailors of the merchant service were so unwilling to enter the Royal Navy. According to the estimate of the Commissioners, the cost of the plan they recommended would be £598,881; but he believed that, large as that amount was, it would not suffice to carry out their recommendations. The cost of a coastguard force of 2,000 men was £116,000 a year, while the estimate for 4,000 men as a reserve for the home force in their report was only£132,000; but he thought it would be nearer the mark if it were calculated at £200,000 In 1852 a Committee of naval
 1023 1024
 MR. FITZROY  said, he would not attempt to follow the hon. Member in the observations he had made touching the proportion of the public expenditure allotted to Scotland, and would confine himself entirely to the substantive matter he had brought before the House. He would assure the hon. Member that no dispute now existed between the Board of Education and the Board of Works. A sum of £10,000 was voted for the Museum the year before last on account of the £40,000, and the delay which had taken place in commencing the works was owing partly to the separation of the plans, and partly to the necessity for procuring additional land. He was happy now to inform the House that the Board of Works and the Council of Education had agreed to have joint plans immediately prepared, and that as soon as they were completed orders would be given to commence the works. He had every reason to believe that they would be commenced with in a very short time.
 MR. LINDSAY  rose to call the attention of the House to the present state of the shipping interest and said, that in so doing he did not intend to occupy the attention
 1046 1047
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  said, he agreed with the hon. Member for Sunderland in thinking that many of these charges were grievances from which the shipping interest were entitled to relief. He wished, however, to state to the House an important circumstance—namely, that since the repeal of the navigation laws had opened our shipping trade to the world, foreign shipping had increased in a quadruple ratio to British shipping. He thought that might be traced to a distinct and reasonable cause. On an average taken during the years 1844 to 1848, as compared with an average taken of the years 1834 to 1838, the proportion of British shipping had diminished from a per centage of 72 to a per centage of 40; whilst in the same period of time foreign shipping had increased from 88 per cent to 133 per cent. This was a startling fact; for the increase of British shipping had not kept pace with the increase of British commerce. When they spoke of free trade in corn, they meant of course free trade in the importation of corn. But free trade in ships was quite another matter, because ships were employed to trade, not only from, but at foreign ports. Thus British shipping had not yet reaped the full benefit of free trade. On the 15th of February last there were 233 trading vessels in the China seas; of these only 100 were British owned, and of these 100 only twenty-one bore the British flag. At Hong Kong there were eighty-four vessels, of which sixty-nine were lading there. Of these only six carried the British flag. But that was not the whole of the grievance of which the shipping interest had to com-
 1049
 MR. RIDLEY  congratulated the House on the improved spirit in which the question of shipping dues was now approached by the Government. He trusted that the rock on which the Bill of 1856 was wrecked would be carefully avoided, and that no attempt would be made to deal with the matter in an arbitrary spirit. He was quite sure that such a measure as the right hon. Gentleman had indicated would, if founded upon the principles of justice, receive a most careful consideration from the representatives of the different harbours in this country. With reference to the local dues of the Tyne, they were expressly appropriated for Municipal purposes, so that most probably all local matters in that case would be settled by a private Bill.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  was of opinion that when the matters referred to by the hon. Gentleman came to be considered it would be seen that the Commissioners, who were only trustees for the public, had been merely anxious to do their duty. The charge which had been brought against them by the hon. Member who spoke last was of the most singular description, and only proved that he had taken no pains to inform himself on the subject; for if the hon. Gentleman had reason to complain of any trepassers, and had preferred a complaint to the Woods and Forests Commissioners, it would have been immediately attended to. There was a remarkable case in point upon the records. In May, 1857, a complaint was made to the Commissioners, at the instance of certain landowners in Sussex, of the removal of stones and shingle from the beach, to the injury of their property. He, as Attorney General, recommended that a plaint should be brought by the Commissioners in the County Court; and the result was that the defendants were fined a certain sum in the way of damages, and the practice put a stop to without costing the country a single farthing. If the hon. Member, and any other parties aggrieved, had only followed the same course relief would have been afforded to them, and a recurrence of the inconvenience would have been prevented. But the hon. Gentleman spoke as if it were the duty of Commissioners of Woods and Forests to enclose the sea-shore, and to preserve it from trespassers; that showed how very little the powers of the Crown had been considered. By the law of the country, the whole of the foreshores, the beds of navigable rivers, and the beds and foreshores of estuaries, were vested in the Crown; and it was for the general public advantage that it should be so. It was vested in the Crown in a double sense—first, as regarded the right of property, and then as regarded a right of jurisdiction. It was commonly said that property was vested in the Crown for the good of the public, and that was true of all property given to the Crown; but it was in this sense true of property vested in the Crown, that the Crown could appropriate no part of the country to the prejudice of the subject. The public had a right to a free passage from the shore to the sea, to get into boats, to go out to sea to fish, and
 1059 pro bono publico. d. d, s.,
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it was not only for the use of the foreshore but the pier that the charge was expressly made. He found, however, that the charge increased in proportion to the size of the waif. The temporary accommodation of a wood-stocked anchor was set down at 3 s., s. 1061
 COLONEL NORTH  hoped the Government would send out this force. He could understand that if these men formed one corps, there might be an objection to losing their services; but these men were all driblets from various depôts to fill up some regiments, and enable others to be relieved. Many regiments in India would be rendered inefficient if the usual reliefs were not sent to them, and it would be like a sentence of perpetual banishment if regiments were
 1066 1067
 COLONEL DUNNE , whilst thinking that we ought to avoid doing anything that was calculated to offend a neighbouring Power, was of opinion that it was our duty to place our defences upon an efficient footing.
 1077
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, the House had wandered from the question whether these 6,700 ought to be sent out to India. These men belonged to different corps, and if they were not sent out those corps would be deficient in that number of men. He thought the Secretary for War went too far when he said that sergeants ought to be fighting men, A sergeant's proper duty was to attend to the men who were fighting in the line. A great deal had been said about our defences, and the Secretary for War was about to appoint a Commission to inquire into the state of our fortifications. It was desirable that the House should be informed of the instructions that were to be given to that Commission. He hoped that if the Commission reported in the recess, and the Government approved of their report, immediate steps would be taken by the Government to act
 1078
 COLONEL GILPIN  addressed a few observations to the House which were inaudible.
 COLONEL DICKSON  observed, that the House was told that the 7,000 men about to be sent to India would release seven regiments of infantry, one of cavalry, and one of military train, which could then return home. It must be remembered that those regiments would come home mere skeletons.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, that might he, but the fact was that the regiments themselves would come home skeletons of regiments with not more than 250 to 300 men in each. He agreed that people were apt to take too gloomy a view of our military means; but, on the other hand, the noble Lord appeared to take too flattering a view, and he (Colonel Dickson) could not see whence the troops enumerated were to be procured upon an emergency. As for the formation of a reserve corps he quite agreed with the hon. and gallant Member for Queen's County (Colonel Dunne), that it was a most ill-advised measure. It was intended to catch the ten years' service men after their periods of service had expired, but those were just the men who were wanted in the militia, and thus having set up an expensive staff to procure men for one service they were about to establish another expensive staff to form an inefficient force. He had been disappointed with the Report of the Militia Commissioners, which did not contain one useful suggestion, and he regretted to hear the Secretary for War express his intention in carrying out future reforms to act upon the suggestions in that Report.
 MR. HENLEY  thought the words "every fifth years" had better be struck out, and
 1081
 MR. LINDSAY  thought it would be un-advisable to make the alteration suggested.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that by this clause, whenever Her Majesty thought fit to call the volunteers into what was called "actual service," the men were liable to have the term of service extended for a period of five years from the date of being called into actual service. This give the Admiralty an arbitrary power to double the time for which the men entered, which was not likely to draw volunteers into the service. In the case of the naval coast volunteers it was provided that they should not be called out unless in circumstances of "imminent national danger." The militia were not to be called upon unless in case of "war between Her Majesty and some foreign Power." He could not help thinking that if they wanted to induce men to enter they ought to introduce the words "unless in case of war or imminent necessity," so that the men might not imagine they were liable to have their term of service extended indefinitely at the mere pleasure of the Admiralty. There was no doubt of the goodness of the scheme, if they could but get men to enter.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, the men when called out would be on a footing with the seamen serving in the fleet; did the noble
 1082
 MR. HENLEY  observed that the hon. Baronet the Member for Portsmouth (Sir James Elphinstone) had advised them not to canvass the Bill very closely, but he confessed that he could not understand it at all. There were so many provisoes in it that all they could tell a man was "you are going into the Queen's service, and you must get out of it as best you can." He complained that the Bill was not clearly drawn, and as men liked to have a definite understanding as to what they were engaging in, and as the success of this measure depended entirely upon its working in the first year, they ought to take great care that it should be so framed that the men could understand it.
 MR. LINDSAY  thought the Bill was a miserably ill-concocted one, and it was impossible to understand it. It was much too long in the first place, and a shorter and more intelligible one would be much more likely to be successful. He was sure that the Admiralty would not get the men for the retaining fee proposed. Looking at the whole Bill, he thought it so mysterious in its provisions that they would get no men to enter the service under it. He advised the withdrawal of the Bill altogether, and draw a new one merely to regulate the
 1083
 MR. HENLEY  said, the noble Lord would have to catch his hare before he cooked it. For his part, he was afraid volunteers would not be caught in that sort of drag-net clause.
 MR. HENLEY  doubted the propriety of expunging the proviso, as the effect of its omission would be to give a statutory authority to the Admiralty to grant pensions without any limit. The question of pensions would require very careful handling in order to do justice between those men who had been in actual service all the time and those who had perhaps never been called out at all. If the proviso were struck out, some words ought to be inserted as a check to guard the interests of the Exchequer. Perhaps the introduction of the qualifying words, "with the consent of the Lords Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury," would be a sufficient restraint upon the power of the Admiralty.
 MR. HENLEY  suggested its omission. It proposed the imposition of duties upon the masters of merchant vessels, the justice of which was questionable, and provided for penalties upon the non-performance of those duties; this would make the measure extremely unpopular in the merchant service.
 MR. LINDSAY  made a similar recommendation as to a clause imposing a penalty upon a master who could not account for a volunteer who had deserted.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the Bill was one of very great importance, and he trusted it would be postponed until next Session.
 COLONEL TAYLOR  said, he had been informed that the officers of those militia regiments which had been called out for twenty-one days' drill had been charged income tax upon their pay. He was afraid that such deductions from the miserable pay of a militia officer would make the service unpopular.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the Act now in force was dependent on the accidental duration of another Parliament, and the object of the present Bill was to continue it for some fixed period next year.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  was ready to accede to the appointment of a Select Committee on the subject if the course were considered desirable.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : The depots here are in excess of the regimental strength.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT :—Before I address myself to what fell from the hon. and gallant Officer opposite, let me make some few remarks on the last sentences of the speech of the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down. He gives in his adhesion, after discussion of the Motion, to the wish to stop these draughts and reliefs being sent out to India, because of the danger from attack by foreign Powers at home. What would be the result of stopping these draughts? Do not let the House think that we are sending out trained men with a military organization. These are draughts of young recruits belonging to regiments in India. We want to get whole regiments and battalions sent back to this country. We have seven coming; they are afloat, and one has arrived. But we want many more battalions from India. We are now going upon a system which is wrong, but to which our necessities compel us. In time of profound peace we are bringing our reserves into line and using our embodied militia where we ought to have regular troops. We want to get rid of this state of things. We necessarily press upon the Indian Government to send back regiments as soon as circumstances will allow. They are unwilling to do so. Following the mutiny of the Sepoys there is the mutiny of the Euro-
 1074 1075 1076
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the Act gave the power to enrol the volunteers for five years, and they were to be called out for twenty eight days' training in each year. At the end of five years the men had the option of enrolling themselves for a second period of five years. At the end of which second period they might claim such a pension as might be decided upon.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  promised to consider these matters, and said that it was probable these clauses would be struck out on the Report.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  accepted the suggestion.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  admitted there were many points in the Bill which had been better left to be dealt with in the regulations that the Admiralty proposed to issue. The measure, however, had been framed principally in accordance with the Act relating to the Coast Volunteer Corps, which had worked extremely well. He submitted to the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) that, without a clause of the kind under consideration, the Crown would not be able to avail itself, in the event of an emergency, of the services of men who, when that emergency arose, might have served four years and eleven months, and would be in another month entitled to their discharge.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, it was precisely on that account that the Admiralty did not wish to enter more specifically into the subject of those pensions. They desired to leave themselves free to grant such pensions after short periods of service as the circumstances of particular cases might justify. He therefore proposed to omit the first proviso in the clause, in order to enlarge the discretionary power of the Admiralty.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the men, when called into active service, would be placed on the same footing as seamen in the fleet.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  stated that it was impossible to fix, with any degree of accuracy, the exact amount that would be annually payable for pensions. None would fall due until after ten years had elapsed, and at the end of that period the increase would be in a progressive ratio: allowing for mortality and withdrawal, it was expected that the amount of pensions annually granted would be about £60,000.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET , to meet the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley), proposed the insertion of words, under which the men would only be called out in the event of a national emergency.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, one of the objects of the Bill was to give the men the certainty that they would not be called on to serve beyond a certain period, hence the necessity of the details of which the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets complained.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET , in moving that the House go into Committee on this Bill, said that, as it had been by the courtesy of hon. Gentlemen allowed to be read a second time without discussion, he would take that opportunity of explaining the provisions of the measure. Many hon. Gentlemen might think that at a time when they read in the  Moniteur 1018 inscription maritime, 1019 d. 1020 d. 1021 in terrorem 1022 Revue des Deux Mondes "On a vu quelquefois le genie d'un homme improviser une armee, jamais une marine."
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  explained that he proposed to retain a discretion for the Government in respect of the matter of pensions.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that as by the 13th clause the Admiralty had the fullest power of framing regulations, he thought the House should not commit itself to the details laid down in the Bill, but should leave them to be worked out by the Government.
 MR. AYRTON  said, from his connection with the Tower Hamlets, he had had many opportunities of conversing with men employed on the Thames, who as a body had it in their power to supply a large volunteer force to the navy, and the impression on his mind was that they would not he induced to volunteer under the provisions of this Bill. He should have been better satisfied if the Bill had been drawn more generally, for he was afraid when it came to be worked, that it would not tempt anything like the requisite number of volunteers.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that Clause 13, giving power to the Executive to draw up
 1084
 MR. BLACK  said, that after the satisfactory answer of the right hon. Gentleman he would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. BLACK  rose to vindicate Scotland from the charges which had been brought against her the other night as constantly attempting to get hold of the public purse. There were some Gentlemen in the House who, whenever a Vote was brought forward for a national benefit, if the locality happened to be in Scotland, denounced it as a Scotch job. That phrase was applied last night to a Vote of£12,000, which was asked for to repair an accident that had befallen a part of the national property—the Crinan Canal—which was a highway through the Highlands, and on that account was objected to, though these same Gentlemen did not hesitate to vote £300,000 for a highway across the Thames in the shape of a bridge in the neighbourhood of this House. These charges were so frequent, and made with so much confidence, that he had taken some trouble to go over the Estimates to find how much of the public money was appropriated to England, Ireland, and Scotland respectively. He found this was more difficult than he had anticipated, from the way in which the Estimates were prepared; but there was one estimate in which the sums were voted separately for each country. For the administration of justice there was voted for England £803,926; for Scotland, £129,188; and for Ireland, £856,283. He thought this was both law and justice enough for Ireland. On the Vote for Education, too, he found the account stood thus:—For England, £384,935; for Scotland, £83,920; and for Ireland, £249,468. With respect, to this last Vote he must state that Scotland never asked for it. His hon. Colleague the Lord Advocate had some years ago brought in a Bill to enable Scotland to provide for its own education out of local rates, and if that Bill had passed, as it did pass this House, the funds of the nation would have been saved this £83,000. There was not a town in the kingdom where education was more ample or more cheap than in Edinburgh, and it was only when this House began with a lavish hand to scatter the money of the country, and, in point of fact, called upon all to come and take it, that parties in Edinburgh pushed
 1044 1045
 MR. DUNLOP  seconded the Motion.
 MR. DUNLOP  thanked the Attorney General for his very satisfactory statement. The Crown had not very long ago taken possession of a portion of the shore on the banks of the Clyde, on which old men past the time of active labour and others were in the habit of catching shell fish and digging for bait, and had let it to a fishmonger at Glasgow for the annual rent of £30, thus depriving these poor people of the means of getting their living. Such a mode of administering Crown property ought not to be encouraged, but he was convinced that if it were administered on the general principle laid down by the Attorney General, it would be most beneficial to the public interests.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  denied that
 1060
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  rose to call the attention of the House to the question relating to the right of the Crown to the foreshores of the United Kingdom, and the proceedings of the Commissioners of Woods and Forests in. dealing with this kind of property. These were to be found embodied in certain returns made to this House, and the Reports laid annually on the table by those Commissioners. He said that the claim of the Government to the foreshores as the dominion and here-ditament of the Crown rose first to any importance about fifteen years ago, before which time scarcely any more notice was taken of it than was necessary for the protection of the public. The voluminous return made on the Motion of Mr. Cheetham showed that in 1833 the first suit arose in connection with Chester. Ie 1839 there was a suit connected with the Humber; in 1844 the great suit about the conservancy of the Thames. In 1845 there were three suits of this nature; in 1851, one connected with the Mersey; in 1852 and 1854 there were suits connected with the Isle of Man; and in 1855 and 1857 there were several suits in connection with the coast of Scotland. Almost all these suits—though stated in the return to have ended in favour of the Crown—were in reality almost all, more or less, compromised; and he expressed his regret in concurrence with Lord Derby, that those of a more important character—particularly that with the city of London, in respect of the Thames—had been so terminated, preventing thereby any judicial decision upon the subject matter of litigation, from which much public benefit would have resulted. He had quoted the figures to show this notion of right to the shores as the freehold property of the Crown, and of appropriating it, had year by year waxed stronger and grown upon the Woods and Forests, and he would now proceed to show how those who had the management of the subject had dealt with this assumed right. Between 1830 and 1839, there were four sales and nine leases; 1840 and 1849, eighteen sales and twenty-two leases; 1850 and 1858, 117 sales and thirty leases—making in all 139 sales and sixty-one leases, within the limits of that return. These sales had realized the sum of £95,000, and the reserved rental on these leases was £958. So stood the account up to March, 1857, as detailed in the reports of the Woods and
 1054 1055 1056 Economist 1057
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  thought it unnecessary for the House, on a simple question of sending draughts to India, to wander into a debate upon Indian finance, upon the organization of the Indian army, or upon the national defences. He agreed with the hon. and gallant Member opposite, the Member for Oxfordshire (Colonel North) that if this were a question of sending regular organized regiments out of this country to India, it would be objectionable. Nothing of the kind was, however, proposed. Whether the force in India was to be reduced or to be kept up at its present amount, it was indispensably necessary to send out these draughts in order to keep up the efficiency of the regiments which were to remain in India; and this was really all it was now proposed to do. Although it might appear that it was a large number of men to send out at one time, it should be observed that they were sent out at this particular time in order that they might arrive in India at a season of the year when they were least likely to be affected by the change of climate, instead of being sent out in driblets all through the year. With regard to the reduction of the force in India, it had been intended to send home ten regiments in the course of this year; but circumstances had occurred which interfered with that measure, and the excitement which had arisen amongst the European troops, though it had been a good deal exaggerated, made it advisable, in the opinion of the Government of India, to retain two or three of the regiments which had been ordered home. One regiment of cavalry, however, and seven regiments of infantry, with a battalion of the military train, had already left India, or were on the point of embarking.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  could not say
 1069
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH : I will, Sir.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he did not think the wording of the clause gave rise to any ambiguity. Every volunteer would have the option of retiring at the end of five years' service, and of renewing his term of service for a similar period if he thoughtproper.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he did not think the question raised by his hon. and gallant
 1070 1071 1072 1073
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  believed that the House would never be thought sincere in its wish for purity at elections until it required from every Member a declaration on oath that he had neither directly nor indirectly incurred other than legitimate expenses.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  objected to the provisions which authorized the seizing and destroying of fireworks.
 MR. TURNER  approved of the principle of the Bill, but there were objections which might be remedied in Committee.
 MR. SPEAKER : Tellers for the Ayes, Mr. Roebuck, and any other Gentleman who will undertake the office.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, he was authorized by the hon. Member for Longford to state that he was absent from his place, when the members of the Hull Election Committee were summoned to be sworn, on account of what he conceived to be imperative and urgent public duty; but immediately that the notice of the General Committee on Elections reached to his residence in Ireland, stating that he had been selected as a member of the Hull Election Committee, he started on his return to London for the purpose of performing the duty which had devolved upon him; and on his road he met the Serjeant-at-Arms. He (Mr. FitzGerald) was authorized to say that the hon. and gallant Gentleman did not intend in the slightest degree to neglect his duty as a Member of that House, or to be guilty of any disrespect to the House. He was also requested to state that if any parties had been put to any inconvenience or expense by his absence he very much regretted it.
 MR. JOHN LOCKE  agreed to this Amendment.
 MR. JOHN LOCKE  explained that the necessity for the Bill had arisen from the accidents which were lately caused in South-wark and Lambeth by the keeping of fireworks in buildings where it was dangerous to have them.
 MR. PHILIPPS  thought the House was much indebted to the hon. Gentleman for bringing forward this subject. He could lay it down as a simple proposition which no one could dispute, that if the Crown had certain rights over the foreshore it had also reciprocal obligations. Now, if it claimed the foreshores, a reciprocal duty must clearly be to prevent trespassing upon the foreshore to the injury of the adjoining lands. He was himself the proprietor of lands adjoining the sea-shore. Persons were in the habit of trespassing upon the shore to obtain shingle and ballast, and although by carrying away this ballast they greatly imperilled his property, it was useless to proceed against the trespassers before the magistrates, as they declined to exercise their summary powers where the right to the property was in question. To obviate this difficulty, he had been compelled to pay several hundred pounds to the Woods and Forests for the foreshore, which, except for the purpose of preventing these trespasses, was perfectly worthless to him. One of the tenants of the adjoining proprietor came to him the other day in a state of great alarm, stating that he was afraid a large field of corn was in danger of being carried away by the sea, in consequence of the depredations committed by trespassers. If the Crown claimed the foreshores, it was clearly bound to protect the adjoining property, but the Woods and Forests had refused to maintain a police for the purpose. With a view of showing the absolute necessity of some decision being arrived at, the hon. Member mentioned that a short time ago a very eminent engineer told him that he had been employed by the Board of Admiralty against the Woods and Forests: it
 1058
 MR. ROEBUCK  called for a division.
 MR. WALTER  said, he was very glad that the House had had an opportunity of hearing the opinion of the hon. Member for Coventry (Sir J. Paxton) on this question, for he believed that there was no one so competent to advise the House in respect to it. He regretted that he likewise was absent from the discussion last night, for he should have liked to have had the opportunity of expressing his opinion, formed from considerable observation on this matter. 1£17,000 might appear a very small sum to spend in dealing with a question like the purification of the Serpentine, but he thought it a very large sum to pay for pouring clean water into a dirty basin. They might go on pumping and filtering for thirty years, but the water would not be clean if pumped into so filthy a receptacle as in its present state the Serpentine was. His conviction was that money spent in this way would be wasted until the Serpentine had been made a proper receptacle for clean water. He did not think that the undertaking involved that detriment to health or those difficulties which some people apprehended, and the only way to proceed was to fill up the inequalities and concrete the bottom. There were millions of firs in the neighbourhood of Bagshot belonging to the Crown, which might be thinned with great advantage, and used with other materials to fill up the holes in the bottom of the Serpentine, exactly in the same way as a road was made. The whole might then be covered over by a bed of concrete. When the bottom of the basin was thus covered then would be the time to pour in clean water. But cleansing the water was only one part of the question. What was also really wanted was, that this large basin might be used by the inhabitants of the metropolis to bathe in and skate on without danger to life, and he thought that this should be effected in a business-like and efficient manner.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  suggested, that the war authorities should carry out a suggestion of great value contained in the Report of the Militia Committee, to secure the best men who had served five years in the militia for the regular force. There were no fewer, he believed than 20,000 who had served their fifth year in the militia, and who might most serviceably be retained for the regular service; though he believed under present regulations they were not likely to be induced to enter the militia again.
 MR. P. W. MARTIN  said, the Act had entailed a great amount of inconvenience and trouble, while it had made the fate of candidates before the Election Committee a perfect lottery. He hoped this would be the last Continuance Bill submitted to the House, and that next year the whole subject would undergo consideration.
 MR. MALINS , while admitting the imperfections in the Bill, believed, nevertheless, that it afforded to candidates a great protection against inordinate expenditure. He concurred with his hon. and learned Friend in the necessity of requiring Members to declare that they had not by themselves or their agents been guilty of bribery.
 MR. MALINS  wished to strike out the words "or kept for sale."
 MR. CRAWFORD  begged to make a few observations on a subject of a cognate character to that to which the hon. Member had referred. The House was aware that the Merchant Shipping Act constituted the mercantile marine fund, but probably they were not aware that the accumulations of the fund amounted to £280,000, in Exchequer bills and £82,000 in cash, being a total of £362,000. He apprehended that it was never intended that there should be such a large accumulation, and he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade what were the intentions of the Government as to disposing of it. The money was derived principally from light dues, ballast rates, fees on masters and mates, and ships' crews engaging and discharging, and fees on the renewal of masters and mates' certificates. The surplus of income over expenditure was in 1854, £180,000; in 1855, £106,000; in 1856. £165,000; in 1857, £85,000; and in 1858, £102,000. He could congratulate Irish and Scotch Members on justice
 1048
 MR. DALGLISH  supported the Bill.
 MR. WALPOLE  suggested, that the Bill should be read a second time in order to affirm its principle; and then that it should be postponed till next Session.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that all that could be agreed to by the second reading would be that all gas should be regulated by one uniform standard. Any discussion of detail of what was an important measure might be taken in Committee.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he would not detain the House by entering into a discussion of the question of free trade in its relation to the shipping interest. He would only say that as far as the Government had it in its power to obtain a reciprocity from Foreign States, it would lose no opportunity of doing so. Not that he would be understood as advocating anything approaching to a system of retaliation. All he meant was that the Government would
 1050 1051 1052
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just sat down, in the begin-
 1040 1041 1042
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained that the object of it was to provide for re-verifying at certain periods the standard weights and measures kept in the counties and boroughs by comparing them with the original standards kept in the Exchequer. It was suggested, however, that the period should be extended in the case of boroughs from three to five years, and in the case of counties from six to ten years.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  acceded to the suggestion.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the officers of the Revenue Department had no option but to call upon them to pay the income tax on all their incomes; and neither those officers nor himself had the slightest power to grant exemption or order a remission.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the clause proposed to extend the provisions of the existing law, so as to give power to justices to grant a search warrant to enter any house where fireworks were kept, and, if any fireworks were there found, to destroy them. This was a somewhat arbitrary power, and he was informed by the police authorities that they did not consider it necessary.
 MR. BAXTER  objected that the House had not had sufficient time to consider this measure, which was of great importance, and affected all the great gas companies and gas consumers of the whole country. It involved both inspection and taxation. He complained that the promoters of the Bill had sent a circular to his constituents animadverting upon his conduct in objecting to the progress of the Bill on a previous evening at so late a period of the Session, and calling upon them to use their influence to prevent his opposing the Bill further. He moved as an Amendment that the Bill be read a second time that day three months.
 MR. DEEDES  said, the present law gave satisfaction neither in nor out of the House.
 MR. W. MILLER  was understood to express his thanks to his hon. Friend (Mr. Lindsay) for having brought this question before the House, and trusted his hon. Friend would pursue his intention of moving for a Select Committee to inquire into the subject next year.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that there were at present 110,000 European troops in India; their cost was enormous, and it would be financially prudent to diminish their numbers as soon as possible. But the main question to be considered now was, whether a certain amount of European troops were more required in India than in this country. If their services were more needed in England than in India, then it would be of the greatest possible advantage for the purpose of the defence of the former, as well with a view to relieving the finances of the latter, that those European regiments which could be spared should be sent home as fast as possible. But he must add that the proposition of the hon. Member to send out to India raw recruits and send acclimatized soldiers back to England, seemed to him somewhat extraordinary. The new-comers in India died off by scores in the first two or three years, and the expense of transport to replace them was very great. But if it be necessary to increase the army in England, it were better to retain the proposed reinforcements of recruits than to order home acclimatized soldiers. With regard to the so-called European mutiny, he could not refrain from remarking that the discontent which had recently arisen among the Company's European troops had, in his opinion, been strengthened by mismanagement, and the display of a great want of tact on the part of the authorities. If they said to the men, "We do not think you are entitled to demand that which you claim; but you have fought gallantly at Delhi, and Cawnpore, and Lucknow, and elsewhere, and we are disposed to deal liberally with you out of admiration for your valour," they would, he thought, have adopted a much wiser course than they had pursued in having recourse to that narrow economy which had led to such unhappy results, and which had been productive of fourfold the expense which a generous policy would have involved.
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, that with reference to the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster, he would say that we had now in India a force most adapted for the defence of this country, and instead of not sending out these 6,000 men to India it would be better to let them go, and bring home some of the fine seasoned men with all the experience of the Crimea and the late war in India upon them. It was a shame that such troops should be allowed to die away from the effects of climate in India. It was best to send out the newly raised men, and bring the seasoned troops home, who would be more available for our defence than militia or newly raised corps.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  agreed with the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  called attention to the fact that the coast volunteers being put into the same situation as the seamen of the navy, by the regulations now existing, if a coast volunteer happened to have a rupture two days after he had joined he might be turned adrift with a gratuity of £6.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, seamen were always suspicious, and he hoped it would be distinctly understood that if those volunteers were called out they would receive their pay weekly, and be allowed to make allotment towards the support of their wives on the very day on which they entered the service, otherwise the poor women would in many instances be forced into the workhouse.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  said, he could see no reason at all why the men should not be paid weekly when in port.
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  had heard the speech of the noble Lord (Lord C. Paget) with great satisfaction, and his confession, tardy though it was, that the officers of the Navy did not understand the sailors of the merchant service. That was quite true, for only those who had well studied the character of merchant seamen could thoroughly understand the difference between them and seamen of the Royal Navy. He believed, however, that, notwithstanding the great difference which existed between these classes of men, they might be amalgamated in the manner suggested by the noble Lord. There could be no doubt, as the hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Lindsay) had said, that in some ships of the navy drill was carried to an excess; but he attributed that to the deficiency of officers, for if an Admiral was in command of a great many ships it was impossible that he could scrutinize minutely the discipline of his fleet. The punishment of death was imposed for nearly every offence mentioned in the Articles of War, at the judgment of a court-martial; but he entertained a strong opinion that the infliction of any punishment under these Articles, except by a court-martial, was illegal. Men were almost always punished without being tried by court-martial, and he remembered many years ago that a sailor, when tied up for punishment, said to his captain, "Why, Sir, I have not been tried;" and the captain's answer was, "A d—d rascal! Give him another dozen!" Such things occurred long ago; but the sailors now read the newspapers; they were better educated than they used to be, and they well understand whether they are properly treated or not. In the East India Company's service, where there are no Articles of War, a seaman who committed an offence was tried by the officers of the ship, who adjudged such punishment as they thought was deserved; and he believed that in only one or two cases had legal proceedings been taken against the captains of the Company's vessels, and that in no case had any damages been awarded by a jury. He concurred in the opinion that corporal punishment should not be entirely abolished, and he believed that if the question were put to any assembly of seamen nine out of ten would admit that without the
 1025
 SIR CHARLES NAPIER  was very glad to learn that such was the case. With the view of making the service more agreeable to seamen, he recommended that endeavours should be made to assimilate as much as possible the discipline of one ship to another, so that a number of little annoyances which the men suffered from a different usage in one ship from that they had been accustomed to in another should cease. He also suggested that it would give great satisfaction if the men were paid once a week, and that there should be better conveniences in certain respects for the men on board, by which their health and comfort would be promoted. If all these evils were remedied there would be no difficulty in manning the navy. The noble Lord spoke of the coast volunteers; but would the House believe that this great maritime country had no registration of the seafaring men existing in England? The 'longshore men in England and Ireland amounted probably to 200,000. There was no registry of them, but they might be registered and called on to serve as well as the volunteers. The sea-fencibles, established during the late war, furnished a large number of seamen,
 1026
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  asked how many men were coming home?
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, that the purport of the Motion which stood in his name was—"That, under present circumstances, it is not necessary or expedient to carry into effect the recent Order for despatching 6,700 Men to India, from the Depots of Regiments serving in India." The late Government gave orders for the despatch of a considerable force of artillery to India six or eight months ago. The matter was brought before the House, and the Government judiciously altered their determination, and did not then send artillery to India. The circumstances of the present case were essentially the same—6,000 or 7,000 men were about to be sent out, and he hoped the Secretary for India would find on consideration that this was not either necessary or advisable to be done. It was said by the Secretary for India that this was the usual season for sending out recruits to India. That might be; but circumstances were not such as to justify such a force being sent out of the country. Both on financial and general grounds such a step would be unwise. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for India a night or two ago, said that the finances of India were in an alarming state. This despatch of troops would cost £300,000 at least, and this
 1062 1063
 SIR FRANCIS BARING : Before I make any observation on the very important subject under debate, I cannot but express my great regret that the gallant Admiral should have stated that the punishments in the navy are illegal. [Sir CHARLES NAPIER: Illegal in the eyes of the men.] I am glad to hear the gallant Admiral's explanation; from what he said I understood that he concurred in that opinion. I fear others may make the same mistake; and though the gallant Admiral's legal opinion may not have the same value as his naval, yet such a statement, backed by so high an authority, is likely to exercise serious influence on the minds of the sailors. There are also circumstances to which I need not further allude, which would specially counsel prudence at the present moment. I agree with the gallant Admiral and the speakers who have gone before me, that many points in the naval service are capable of improvement; if I do not follow the various suggestions thrown out, it is not because I underrate them. The condition of the seaman has been greatly improved by successive Boards of Admiralty since the peace, but that does not preclude the consideration of further improvement. I feel satisfied that the House will not refuse to vote any sum for the improvement of the condition of our gallant defenders, that the Government may, on proper consideration, feel it right to ask. But improve that condition as you will, the great difficulty will still remain—the manning the navy on the breaking out of a war. You then have to go into a limited market for a large and sudden supply. The number of sailors in peace will be regulated by the wants of the navy and the merchant service. If you suddenly call
 1027 1028 1029 1030 Marlborough 1031 1032 1033 1034
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  (Chairman of the General Committee on Elections), said, that all the proceedings taken in this matter were taken in pursuance of the Act of Parliament; none of the steps hitherto adopted could have been avoided; but now further steps to be taken were in the discretion of the House. It was necessary,
 1013
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he was glad to see that a measure had been at last introduced for this purpose, and if it was not in its present shape all that could be desired it could easily be made so. The plan was only an experiment; but if it did not succeed they would come to the matter again with the advantage of greater experience. He did not think that the continuous-service system had had a fair trial. No man should be admitted as a continuous-service man who was not an able seaman; whereas they had admitted good men and bad alike. With regard to impressment he thought that the greatest benefit the Commission on Manning the Navy had conferred on the country was in putting an end to that system, which hung as a terror over the minds of seamen. No Government could ever revive that system after the Report of the Commission. India had been brought under the government of this country, and why was it then that no less than 500 men of the naval brigade of Calcutta had been discharged some time ago, and in two or three months after offered a bounty of £5 a man to induce them to reassemble, which object it was impossible to accomplish? He believed that if the Government carried out the recommendations of the Commission most of the grievances of which seamen at present complained would be removed. He would urge on the Government to do away with the hulking system, which led to desertions while the ships were fitting out. He thought that the casks of salt beef ought to be branded so that the date of curing could always be ascertained. Under the old system it was impossible to calculate the degree of senility at which a piece of beef had arrived. The men refused to eat the beef in a particular cask; that cask was handed from ship to ship and descended from father to son, until all trace of the birth and parentage of the beef was entirely lost. Now any one who had ever read even an elementary work on chemistry knew that such stuff was not fit for use; yet so long as it did not get a bad smell it found its way from ship to ship till at
 1035 1036 1037 apropos de facto 1038 1039
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  hoped care would be taken to let the seamen understand plainly the advantages held out to them, and that for this purpose the utmost publicity should be given to the terms offered.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he still felt that the plan adopted in St. James's Park ought to be pursued in regard to the Serpentine—the bottom should be levelled and pure water pumped in. He thought the report of Mr. Hawksley ought to be submitted to other scientific persons in the kingdom. His right hon. Friend (Mr. FitzRoy) only met one point connected with the matter—namely, the question of cleansing the water; but his right hon. Friend must be aware, from the deputation that waited on him, that there were many other circumstances worthy of consideration. Taking into account the number of persons who bathed in the Serpentine, the condition of the bed of the river was a source of great danger. The holes might be filled up with rubbish, and, if his right hon. Friend did not go so far as to concrete the whole of the bottom, at least he might do something to remedy the mischiefs brought under his consideration by that important deputation. If the bed of the Serpentine were levelled, then the danger of loss of life from bathing would be removed, and the objectionable looking building, the Humane Society House on one of the banks, might he got rid of. It was not for him to say that Mr. Hawksley would turn out to be wrong, but he was glad to find that what he stated yesterday received some support from the hon. Member for Coventry that day. If works of this kind were to be carried out, it was very much better to meet the difficulty boldly than to deal with it in a patch-work and inefficient manner.
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  said, he thought that the Committee, in voting this sum of £17,000 yesterday, came to a conclusion on what he considered very insufficient information. So far as he could understand—for he was not present at the discussion—it was advocated as a cheap plan of carrying out the improvement; but he thought that on the slightest examination it would be found that the sum of £17,000 did not represent the capital required for the purpose. First of all, it would be necessary to put up steam-engines in the neighbourhood of the Albert Gate, which would constitute a great nuisance to the residents near that part of the Park; and it would also he necessary to construct large filtering beds in Kensington Gardens. The expense of drawing up 2,000,000 gallons of water daily and of keeping the filtering beds clean in Hyde Park would amount to £1,200 or £1,500 a year, representing something like a capital of £50,000. He had a very high opinion of Mr. Hawksley, who was very cognizant of hydraulic matters; but as to the opinion
 1014
 COLONEL P. HERBERT , who had a Notice of Motion on the paper, "That in the opinion of the House the military force at present available for service within the United Kingdom is inadequate to existing requirements," said, that as, by the forms of the House he could not make his Motion, he would take advantage of that of his hon. and gallant Friend to make the statement he desired to address to the House on that subject. He would not enter into the question of the general defences of the country, or of the military forces of other nations, or even of what ought to be the number of troops for the defence of this country; he wished to confine himself to the fact of the number of troops which were actually possessed in the United Kingdom at the present moment. He had before him a document, the accuracy of which would not be disputed by the Secretary for War, and he had extracted from it the figures he wished to bring before the House. He would refer to the number of troops in the United Kingdom on the 1st of June in this year. The total number on that day, including militia, was 110,000. He wished to enter into an examination of the actual value of
 1064 1065 Daily States s. d.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he shared in the opinion of the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster (Sir De Lacy Evans) that looking to the state of India, and the large European force there, he could not see why such a large number of additional men should be sent out. But he rose to point out to the House that the force which the hon. and gallant Member wished to retain in this country did not belong to the British Government, but to the Government of India. It was natural that
 1068
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON :—The hon. Gentleman who spoke last but one (Sir F. Smith) wished to know what were the functions of the Commission which my right hon. Friend has appointed, or is going to appoint. My right hon. Friend, I think, has already explained what are the functions of that Commission. Their duties will be to examine accurately all the plans of works which are yet to be made, to compare them with those works which are already made, and to see what will be the best mode of adapting that which is to be added to that which exists, in order to render as complete as possible with reference to the present system of attack those works which are essential to the defence of the dockyards and establishments of the country. They will not have so much to overhaul the works now in existence as to see in what way those works may be made most effective. I should hardly have risen, however, had it not been to correct a misconception on the part of my right hon. Friend (Mr. Horsman) as to what I said upon a former occasion. I think I understood him as imagining that I had stated the people of this country were themselves able to defend it in case of invasion. I never meant any such thing. I was approving of the riffle corps then in contemplation in the interior of the country, and I said that if we were engaged in war I did not doubt but that the people would exhibit the same spirit which was evinced by a much smaller population during the war which commenced in 1803, when 200,000 or 300,000 volunteers were raised, organized, armed, equipped, and officered, for the defence of the country. I have no doubt such a force, in addition, of course, to the regular army and the militia, would
 1079 1080
 MR. SERJEANT DEASY  observed, that in his opinion the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) was unfair in his remarks on the conduct of Election Committees for refusing to carry out the Act of Parliament. They had put a meaning on the Act which he (Mr. Deasy) considered to be a perfectly correct one.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he could not but admit that the Articles of War were very old-fashioned, and a good many of them were never acted upon, but the propriety of revising those articles had been considered by the former Board of Admiralty, and was under the consideration of the present Board. The question of inviting officers of the merchant service to join the reserve force was one of great importance and ought to receive due consideration. Such a measure would, however, be attended with very considerable additional expense. Of this he assured his hon. Friend, that in the event of any emergency, the Government would rely on the merchant service, not only to provide seamen, but also good officers.
 MAJOR GAVIN  said, he thought that if the bribers were to be prosecuted, according to the strict letter of the law, as well as those who had been bribed, such a course would check the practice of bribery.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that so far from the Act of last year not being sufficiently strict to put down bribery, it was of so stringent a character, and would lead to so much hardship upon hon. Members, if carried out in its integrity, that the Election Committees declined to do their duty in carrying out the Act. If the Act were to be carried out in its stringency, it might be that an hon. Member returned by a very large majority might be unseated if it were known that he had given a pot of beer, or a paltry sum of 5 s.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  stated, that the inquiries before the Election Committees during the present Session had shown that the clause in the Act of last year against candidates paying travelling expenses was perfectly useless, and that under it bribery could be perpetrated with impunity. The clause simply stated that it was "illegal" to give money for the payment of travelling expenses, but the Act did not state that such payment was bribery and that it should invalidate any election. The Committees had, in fact, driven a coach and four through the clause. To say that it was illegal to pay travelling expenses was nothing more than might be said of an ordinary assault or any minor misdemeanor, such as giving a man a black eye. Unless the House made travelling expenses bribery they would never put that crime down.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, that the decisions of the Committees were often contradictory, and it was desirable that they should be guided by some general law. The House would remember that after a former election for Peterborough, an hon. Member (Mr. G. Whalley) was unsealed because at a dinner which was given after the election in the town which he represented, he had sent two dozen of champagne, That was carrying out the Act in all its stringency which no reasonable man could approve.
 MR. G. CLIVE  said, that he believed that some of the disadvantages ascribed to the Act arose from the peculiar construction of the tribunals which administered it. There could be no doubt, however, that the Act of 1854 must be amended during the next Session; and in order to ensure the attention of Parliament to the subject, he would move as an Amendment that the words, "or until the end of the then next Session of Parliament" should be struck out, in order that the period of continuance of the Bill should expire on the 10th of August next.
 MR. G. CLIVE  said, this Bill would provide for the emergency of an abrupt termination of the Session before the usual period in August next.
 MR. BRADY  said. he must enter his
 1094 in toto.
 MR. HOPWOOD  said, he wished to inquire what necessity there could be for this Continuance Bill at all, seeing that the present Act would remain in force until the end of next Session.
 MR. LAING  stated, that the "droits" of the Crown was a fund derived from moneys of persons dying intestate, of convicted felons, and from the seizure of vessels, and other sources. The sum of £13,000, which had been paid out of this fund, was for the costs and damages in the case of "Hopper  v.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  stated that, in conformity with the general practice, the Consolidated Fund Bill had not been distributed, for it was only printed when some change took place in its form, but it could be obtained by any hon. Members at the Vote-office. The other topics to which the hon. Baronet had referred were of very considerable importance. The hon. Baronet had asked whether it was his intention to propose any changes in the law in consequence of, or in conformity with, the report of the Public Moneys Committee. He agreed generally with the hon. Baronet that the whole system of our finance—by which he meant what related to the custody and management of public moneys as distinguished from raising them on the one hand and spending them on the other—was in a state of considerable incongruity, and although we lived in a country which made it a boast that theory and practice never agreed, and
 1091 1092
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he
 1089 Newport, 1090
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  said, that he entertained some strong objections to this Bill, as he feared, that it would not accomplish the object which the Government had in view; namely, on the ground that its provisions were uncertain and unintelligible, and could not be readily understood by the seamen. He also thought the attempt to induce the merchant seamen to form a reserve force would be more likely to be successful if they relaxed the severity of the Articles of War, and offered inducements to officers of the merchant service to enter the reserve force along with the men. He had had some little experience in organizing bodies of men. During the Crimean war he had organized a body of 4,500 men in a very short period; but when it was proposed that the men should be placed under the Articles of War, they declined to join the Army Works Corps, though they stated
 1093
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for War why men who have received the legal right to practise surgery and medicine from the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland are excluded from becoming candidates for the medical appointments in the Army; also why the Surgeons of Cavalry are charged forage money for their horses, while those of Infantry are exempt from that charge; and also whether there will he any objection on the part of the Government to grant to those deserving Medical Officers who have retired from the Service the same additional remuneration which will be given to those who are at present serving on their retirement?
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, it was not his intention to allude to pay, but to rank only.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for War whether the Royal Commissioners to inquire into the Defences of the Country have been appointed, and whether there is any probability of their making a Report before the prorogation of Parliament; and, if not, whether, on the recommendation of the Commissioners, Her Majesty's Government will feel at liberty to suspend any works which have been already authorized by Parliament, or to commence without such authority any other works which the Commissioners may represent to be of an urgent character.
 MR. KINGLAKE  said, he had undertaken to meet the noble Lord on that occasion by moving the previous question, because he conceived that the proposal which the noble Lord had submitted to the House was one that could not be appropriately met either by an affirmative or negative Vote. He cordially agreed in the major portion of the observations which had fallen from the noble Lord; but he thought he had in some degree misled himself by consulting an English Dictionary for the purpose of ascertaining how it was that an English Minister should conduct the negotiations of a country which was observing neutrality. Looking into an English Dictionary, the noble Lord found that "neutrality" was defined as "total indifference." Why, if the Earl of Malmesbury had observed that total indifference which the noble Lord said it was his duty to maintain, how was it that they had that Blue-book—that volume of "rejected addresses"—of which the noble Lord was known to be an enthusiastic admirer? The truth was, that the impartiality and neutrality which it was the duty of an English Minister to observe in his relation with Foreign States were not of so narrow a description as they ought, in the noble Lord's opinion, to maintain. On the 1st of January last, Europe was in the enjoyment of profound peace, but it became known that, from some cause or other, that peace was to be disturbed. Under such circumstances, was it not evident that some one must have been deeply in fault? What, then, was the virtue of impartiality, as defined by the noble Lord, which he put forward as the true guide of a Minister for Foreign Affairs? It might as well be said that a policeman who witnessed an outrage should be required to observe a strict impartiality between the person committing the outrage and the person who was its object. He (Mr. Kinglake) must refuse to vote in favour of the noble Lord's proposition. He did not desire to lay it down broadly that the proposition was unconstitutional, but he did say that to interpose the counsels of the House of Commons in the place of those usually given to Her Majesty by her accustomed advisers was, at all events, to express a very strong distrust of the Ministers of the Crown; and he believed that if
 1135 1136 1137 apropos de facto 1138 1139
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD :—Sir, I entirely concur in one portion of the speech of the right hon. Gentleman who has just addressed the House, I allude to that portion in which he admitted the importance of the question that has been brought before the House by my noble Friend (Lord Elcho). Its importance, indeed, cannot be exaggerated. It is important to Italy, to this country, and to Europe at large. And notwithstanding the criticisms in which the right hon. Gentleman has indulged, I think for one that this House owes a deep debt of gratitude to the noble Lord for giving us an opportunity before the termination of the Session of hearing the sentiments of Her Majesty's Government and the opinions of the leading members of this House upon a question so vitally important. In one point of view, however, I cannot agree with the right hon. Gentleman. I will admit that, to a certain extent, this is an unusual Motion; but, at the same time that there is anything improper either in the form, the object, or the wording of the Motion, I most emphatically deny. If, Sir, at the commencement of the late Session, hon. Gentlemen opposite had found that the policy adopted by the late Government with reference to the then impending war had not been a policy of neutrality, is there a single person here who thinks that the noble Lord opposite (Lord John Russell) would for one moment have hesitated to move a resolution in this House, or that he would have failed to carry that resolution prescribing to the Government a policy of neutrality? The Resolution of my noble Friend (Lord Elcho) on the present occasion is dictated by a similar spirit. It is because we distrust the intentions of the noble Lords opposite, and because they have shown a determination to go into a Congress, not to promote the objects which this country feels most desirable, but to lend assistance to the Emperor of the French in the difficult position in which he is placed, that we think it necessary there should be an expression of opinion on the part of this House that such a policy is in-
 1157 1158 Gazette of St. Petersburgh 1159 "Before closing this despatch I will beg your Lordship's permission to refer briefly to some of the difficulties with which I have had to contend, in carrying out your Lordship's instructions. In the first place, I had to encounter a fixed idea that France was determined on war with Austria, and that to make concessions was but to put off the evil day. I hope that I have succeeded in partially removing this impression. Secondly, the pride of Austria naturally revolts at being constituted the object of attack, and being called upon to make concessions instigated by the animosity and ambition of Sardinia." "I have the satisfaction of adding, in conclusion, that, great as is the irritation, which it cannot be denied exists at this moment against the Emperor of the French, the Emperor of Austria and his Government render full justice to the services which have been rendered to Europe by the former Sovereign; nor can I doubt, that the Austrian Government would accept with a sincere desire to bring them to an honest conclusion any overtures for a reconciliation with France, the acceptance of which would not be incompatible with their honour." 1160 1161 1162 1163 1164 1165 1166 1167 1168 1169 1170 1171
 MR. GILPIN  said, he would not endea
 1177 Quarterly Review. 1178 1179
 THE O'DONOGHOE  said, that he wished to be assured that peace had actually been concluded between France and Austria, because some of the most influential Members of the Government had spoken in a manner that might lead the House to suppose that the conditions of a peace were not really settled at Villafranca—that it was a mere preliminary arrangement worth nothing unless confirmed by the other great Powers of Europe. Now, he believed that the Emperor of the French bad certain objects which he thought worth a war to obtain. He engaged in that war, and having in several battles proved the supremacy of the French army, he accepted a peace the conditions of which were settled at Villafranca. At least one of the contracting parties considered that the peace of Villafranca was a final settlement, for the Emperor of Austria was averse to the idea of a Congress; he assumed there was nothing for it to do. And could they suppose the French Emperor, after having exposed his army to the risks of a campaign, would now invite the commencement of a campaign of diplomacy and intrigue, having the avowed object of undoing all that had been effected by the victories of Magenta and Solferino? It could not be expected that this peace, which had disturbed the equanimity, if not the equilibrium of Europe, should be settled by the Powers that were only spectators of the war; nor would the Emperor of the French have proposed the articles of a peace only to invite diplomacy to make them perfectly nugatory. He believed that Europe had to decide between accepting the articles of the peace of Villafranca and a renewal of the war, and if he were right in that impression, Her Majesty's Government would, he believed, best consult their honour by supporting the Motion of the noble Lord the Member for Haddingtonshire, because, as the peace had already been concluded upon distinct and specific grounds, all that they could do in a Congress would be to assist in carrying out its details. The articles agreed on at Villafranca, they might depend
 1180 1181
 MR. WHITESIDE : The noble Lord,
 1205 "What is the influence which we have had on the counsels of the Alliance? We protested at Laybach—we remonstrated at Verona. Our protest was treated as waste paper, our remonstrances mingled with the air! The sources of our strength are in the sympathy between the people and the Government; in the union of the public sentiment with the public counsels; in the reciprocal confidence and co-operation of the House of Commons and the Crown. If Prince Metternich has taught himself to believe that the House of Commons is merely a clog and impediment to the free action of the counsellors of the Crown,—that its prejudices are to be softened, its waywardness to be soothed, but that the tenor of the Government is, in effect, independent of its impulse; that it is, in short, to be managed, but not to be con-
 1206 "We all know that by one of the articles of the treaty, very short and somewhat ambiguous in its terms, it is declared that the Grand Duke of Tuscany and the Duke of Modena return to their States, granting an amnesty. Now, how are they to return to their States? … When I inquire with respect to this subject, I must tell the House, that although I have no official assurance of the fact, I feel convinced, and I have good reason to be convinced, that the Emperor of the French has no intention of employing French troops for the restoration by force of the Grand Duke of Tuscany. I believe, likewise, from all I can hear, that the Emperor of Austria does not intend—he certainly has not avowed any intention—to use his troops for the purpose of restoring these two Archdukes, and I think I may presume—at least I presume from what I have heard—that even if he were disposed to do so, the Emperor of the French would not consent to it. Well, if that be so, a great difficulty at once arises in carrying the treaty into effect."—3  Hansard, 1207 cui bono "Count Walewski states that a French and Austrian Plenipotentiary are about to meet immediately at Zurich, to convert into a treaty of peace the bases decided upon between their Majesties." "You are aware, by my former correspondence, that the Government has always desired to see the great Powers concur for the definitive settlement of the affairs of Italy. His Majesty's intentions have not altered in this respect, and we hope that the Powers will be able to meet, either in a Congress or in a Conference, to confer on all the questions raised by the actual state of things in Italy, and which are connected with general interests." 1208 "To confer on all the questions raised by the actual state of things in Italy, and which are connected with general interests." "In order to deliberate upon the bases of the Confederation, whose establishment the two Sovereigns have mutually agreed to further." "The Emperor of the French has not contented himself with repelling the Austrian invasion of the territory of his Ally: he has declared it to be his purpose to liberate Italy from the Alps to the Adriatic. This proclamation has been received with transport wherever, in Northern or Central Italy, Austrian troops do not exercise a power of compression. Milan and the whole of Lombardy, Parma, Modena, and Tuscany have eagerly proclaimed their adherence to the war to which they were thus invited." 1209 1210 1211 1212 1213
 LORD ELCHO  said, he regretted that he was out of order, because had he been allowed to allude to this statement he thought it would have proved that in the opinion of the Government this portion of the Motion was correct, and that the conduct of the late Ministry had been strictly impartial. He would, however, quote a passage from a recent publication which gave a speech delivered by the Marquess of Normanby on that occasion, with an appendix. The Marquess of Normanby, who had perhaps been more mixed up in these Italian questions, and who was more conversant with their intricacies than any other person, said in this appendix:—
 "With respect to the correspondence, I believe that those who had before most vehemently imputed partiality to the late Government have since avowed their conviction that nothing could be more creditable than their general tone, or more obvious than their  bona fide 1123 "That he purposely suppressed the Austrian note denying the intention of invading Piedmont, Because he did not think the professions of Austria worthy of credence." 1124 1125 1126 faustrecht. 1127 "Neutral nations are those who in time of war do not take any part in the contest, but remain common friends to both parties. A neutral nation must in all things show a strict impartiality towards the belligerent Powers." bona fide commissionnaire, animus 1128 "Without yet having official information of the disposition of the new British Ministry, we are authorized to infer from the debate which preceded their coming into power, conclusions most favourable to the independence of Italy, and we are under the firm persuasion that the English Government is in its views, as well as in the support of its influence, favourable to the solution that we ourselves seek." "The more we may be tempted to sympathize with Sicily, the less we admire Neapolitan institutions and usages of Government, the more tenacious, as I contend, we should be of our duty to do them full justice. I say, therefore, that the noble Viscount (Viscount Palmerston), when he thus anticipated the dismemberment of the Two Sicilies, did an act which breathed a spirit of hostility towards a friendly Power,—an act at variance with duty,—an act ill adapted to advance the true interests of freedom in that or any other country." 1129 "Which is the wisest policy—to attempt to interfere with the institutions and measures of other countries not bordering upon our own, out of an abstract love for constitutional government—or to hold that doctrine maintained by Mr. Fox, Mr. Pitt, Lord Grenville, Mr. Canning, and Lord Castlereagh, that the true policy of this country is non-intervention in the affairs of others?"—3  Hansard, "I say if you want to benefit nations struggling for their freedom, establish as one of the maxims of international law the principle of non-intervention."—[3  Hansard, 1130 "The result of his (Viscount Palmerston's) policy was to be seen in the summary dismissal of our Minister from Madrid, in the sudden withdrawal of the Austrian Ambassador from the Court of St. James's, in the deep humiliation of the King of Sardinia, in the degradation of the Pope, in disappointed Italy, in offended Russia, in estranged Austria, in alienated Germany, in the averted looks with which our former most valued allies now regard us; and to sum up all in one brief sentence, we might mark it everywhere in the partial hatred, in the general disquietude, in the universal distrust with which our policy was now received by every nation upon earth,—[3  Hansard, 1131 à fortiori, 1132 1133
 LORD ELCHO  said, the best answer he could give to the noble Lord the First Minister, who thought his Motion wrong both in form and substance, was to refer to the expressed opinion of the Foreign Secretary, that the Motion was, in fact, a truism, and that no man in his senses could say that it would be consistent with the honour or dignity of England to go into a Conference merely to settle the details of the Treaty of Villafranca. Surely then there must be some difference of opinion in the Cabinet. The only complaint he could make was, not that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had exhibited any want of courtesy towards him, but that he had never read the Motion. That Motion applied simply to the details of the peace. It was said to be irrelevant. So perhaps it was now, but three weeks ago, when notice of it was given, he had reason to believe that the Government were about to commit the country to a Conference, and to settle the details of the peace. He had carefully guarded himself from the supposition, that if circumstances arose which he could not anticipate, he wished to preclude the Government from going into a Conference respecting the affairs of Italy. He was willing in that case to leave the discretion of entering such a Conference in the hands of the Government. And now what had been the result of this debate? The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) had expressed a hope that he would be satisfied with the ample discussion which had taken place. But his Motion had resulted in more than
 1243
 LORD ELCHO  said, it was not without a deep sense of the responsibility and difficulty of the task he was about to undertake, as well as of his inability properly to treat so important a subject, that he had given the notice which stood in his name on the paper. He had done so, however, because he felt strongly upon the Italian question and on the subject of the late war, and because he dreaded from what he heard that, unless some means were taken to obtain from the House an expression of opinion with reference to the Conference, they might find themselves irretrievably committed to it. He was, however, bound to admit that the statement subsequently
 1121
 LORD ELCHO  said, that a notice was given in another place of a Motion to the following effect ("Order!")—
 LORD ELCHO : Notice was given of a Motion to the effect that the conduct of the
 1122
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that the Members of the Commission had been appointed, but had not yet met. The prorogation of Parliament would, he hoped, take
 1120
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he had not considered that point, but he was inclined to think, on the whole, it would be dangerous to make the change retrospective.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that as far as the Surgeons in the Cavalry and Infantry were concerned the forage allowances to them were regulated by particular practices which obtained in each Service. With regard to candidates for Commissions, since the increased scale of pay was given incrased requirements were demanded from the candidates, and it had been decided not only to require a Diploma of the College of Surgeons, but also a Medical Diploma from some other body, to insure their knowledge of both medicine and surgery. With regard to the retired Officers, he thought it would be unwise to depart from the rule that no change should be retrospective, and give Officers who had already retired the same additional pay as would be given to those who would retire hereafter.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that there was a regulation at present in existence enjoining upon commanding officers of Regiments that they were to be particularly attentive that no soldier professing the Roman Catholic, or other religious persuasion differing from the Established Church, should be compelled to attend Divine service according to the Church of England; but that every soldier should be at liberty to attend a form of worship in accordance with his own religious belief, when not prevented by his Military duties. That regulation, he believed, entirely met the views of his hon. and gallant Friend.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : Sir, I confess, after listening to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman who has just spoken, and perceiving how contemporary history may be distorted within a few days after the happening of the events which it professes to narrate, I scarcely know what degree of credence is to be attached to the recital of circumstances of remote occurrence. The right hon. Gentleman brings forward as one of his first accusations against the Government the alleged fact that we snatched at the proposal of a European Congress, but I cannot discover where the right hon. Gentleman has found the evidence on which that statement is based. I recollect my noble Friend the First Lord of the Treasury stated that a proposal had been made to the English Government to enter into a European Congress, not, as has been asserted, for the purpose of settling the details of peace, but with the object after peace had been settled on those terms with which the belligerent Powers alone have a right to deal, of deciding in common with the other Powers of Europe what measure should be taken with respect to the future of Italy. "But," the right hon. Gentleman contends, "we, the House of Commons, apparently have some knowledge on this subject which you, the Government, do not possess." Now, my noble Friend the Secretary for Foreign Affairs has stated very clearly all the difficulties which are involved in our taking part in a Congress. He says that before we take that course we must know first of all in what the treaty of Zurich consists, and what is the starting point from which we are to take our departure. Not possessing that knowledge, he gave no opinion as to whether we ought to go into a Congress or not. The right hon. Gentleman, however, is not so cautious. He seems to know everything about the Treaty of Zurich, which has not as yet been drawn up, and contends that to take part in a Congress on such a basis as that treaty presents would be unworthy of the representatives of this country. Now, it appears to me childish to talk of our going to settle the details of a
 1200 1201 neutralité inquiétante. 1202 1203 Code Napoleon 1204
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, he thought it was impossible for any one to look to the events which had occurred and not feel convinced that an arrangement had been entered into in the course of last autumn by which the war was brought about. No one could entertain a higher opinion than he did of the character and abilities of Count Cavour, or of the energy with which he had checked the aspirations of Mazzini and his followers on the one hand, and the proceedings of the retrograde party in Italy on the other. Nevertheless it was impossible in good faith to approve of all Sardinia had done, or to deny that her ambition had led to a great deal of what had taken place; at the same time he could not deny that for five-and-twenty years the Austrian system had weighed heavily on Italy. He thought that House need entertain no jealousy of the Government with respect to a Conference; but at the same time he thought his noble Friend (Lord Elcho) was right in bringing the question of the Conference before them. He could not see any good that would flow from our joining in a Congress at this moment, and he had understood the noble Lord the Member for the City of London to say, that he would not enter into a Congress to settle the details of the peace of Villafranca. On the other hand, if a Congress was to meet to consider the general question of European policy, the House ought not to seek to limit the action of Government in that respect, however desirous they might be to avoid incurring any responsibility with regard to the settlement of Italy. It would not be becoming in us as a great Protestant Power to take any prominent part in the settlement of the Papal States, though he certainly thought it was an un-
 1172 1173 coup d'état
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I must confess that if my noble Friend (Lord Elcho) wished to bring our foreign policy with regard to Italy before the House, I cannot conceive a Motion worse fitted for the purpose he has in view than the Motion he has presented; because what he endeavours to affirm is, that the Crown should be addressed not to do that which it has never been asked to do by anybody, and which it has not the smallest intention of doing. My noble Friend says, "Do not go into a Congress for the purpose of considering the details of a peace the preliminaries of which were settled by the two Emperors at Villafranca." It has never been proposed, and never will be proposed, that such a Congress should ever be held, and it really seems to me a mockery of the House of Commons to ask it to go up to the Crown with such an Address as this Motion proposes. But then it might be supposed, and my right hon. Friend the Member for Stroud (Mr. Horsman) has given this meaning to the Motion, that although the words are thus limited, its real meaning is, that the Crown should be advised not to enter into any Congress or Conference whatever upon the state of Italy. But my noble Friend in his speech expressly disavowed that meaning, for he said, "I mean nothing of the kind. If there should be any advantage in considering the state of Italy during the recess, and it can be done safely and sufficiently in Congress, I hope that the Ministers of the Crown may enter into that Congress, and be successful in that endeavour. But then what becomes of the Motion? It either means us to ask the Crown to do that which has never been thought of at all, or not to do that which the mover of the Motion himself has no objection to its doing. I really conceive therefore, Sir, with regard to the Motion itself it would be difficult to persuade this House to consent to its terms. But my noble Friend the Member for Haddington has taken the opportunity which this Motion has given him of expressing his views on the affairs of Italy; and in that respect I can have no objection to the course he has taken. I am personally obliged to my noble
 1214 1215 1216 1217 1218 Code Napoleon Code Napoleon, 1219 Code Napoleon, 1220 1221 1222 1223 1224 1225 1226
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, that had he felt any doubt as to the expediency of the Motion of the noble Lord, that doubt would have been entirely removed by the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He never heard a speech which betrayed so strongly the feeling with which the Government would approach the Conference, if they were permitted to attend it. Parts of that speech he deeply regretted to hear. Parts of that speech might have been spoken by Mazzini himself. Parts of that speech were calculated to excite the Sovereigns of Italy and to create the very dangers which the Conference was intended to avoid. He had been unable to follow the argument of the right hon. Gentleman when he spoke of isolation. He held that there were positions when an isolated policy was a truly dignified policy. In 1841, for instance, when Prance was placed in an isolated position on the Eastern question, M. Guizot, in his eloquent language, explained in the Chamber of Representatives that "a position of isolation was one which, at that time, France intended to maintain as the only dignified position," although he guarded himself by saying that "isolation was not the normal state of the country; but that, when arrangements had been
 1174 1175 1176
 MR. DISRAELI :—Sir, having been alluded to by more than one hon. Gentleman in the course of the debate, it is hardly possible for me to be altogether silent; but at this late hour I shall not detain the House at any length by the observations I have to offer. And to touch in order on the allusions which have been made to me, I will commence with the observations of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The right hon. Gentleman charges me with having violated neutrality in two distinct forms, and with having, at the same time, made an intimation in my place in Parliament, as a responsible Minister of the Crown, of a most important character which I was not justified in offering to the House. He says that while we professed to be the advocates of strict and impartial neutrality, it was I myself who first violated that neutrality, because I spoke in terms of great respect of Austria, while on the other hand I spoke of Sardinia in language which conveyed a different sentiment. Now, Sir, let us see whether there is any foundation for this charge. I have not referred to the authentic record of what took place on that occasion, but the time that has elapsed is so brief, that I think I may trust to my own memory, and perhaps to the recollection of the House—for though it was in a different Parliament, many hon. Members who were then present are present now, and will be able to testify to the accuracy of my statement. It was on the night when it was my duty to lay before the House, in compliance with the engagement of the late Ministry, a statement of our relations with Austria and Sardinia, and as to the prospect of maintaining peace between France and Austria then threatened. In giving an account of the negotiations, I had occasion to speak of Sardinia, and I remember that I spoke of the gallant and interesting effort made by that country to establish representative Government, and what are called liberal institutions in Italy. I said that was an effort which had enlisted the feelings—the good feelings—of all classes of Her Majesty's subjects, and that her subsequent conduct as our Ally in the Crimea had increased that feeling, and sealed the sympathy which this country naturally entertained for her. I then went on to say that during the interval which had elapsed be-
 1227 1228 1229 1230 1231 1232 1233 1234 1235 1236
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that there had been two or three changes in the rank and designation of these officers. In the Indian Army there were two different ranks, which corresponded with only one in the Line; that was to say, there were two classes of Deputy Inspectors- General in the Indian Army, whilst there was only one in the Queen's Forces. The fact was that it was quite impossible, so long as they had two ranks in the one service corresponding with one in the other service, to make the ranks move in precisely parallel lines. There must be inequality one way or the other; and he believed that, on the whole, the arrangement which had been made after mature consideration between the Indian authorities and the Commander-in-Chief was less unequal than any other that could he made, unless the two ranks in the Indian Army were merged into one, which the Government of India did not think advisable for the efficiency of the service there.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he believed it would be necessary to explain the circumstances under which this question arose to make his answer intelligible. Previous to the late mutiny the Royal Artillery never served in India, and there was a difference of rank between the Officers of the Royal Artillery and those of the Indian Artillery. There was no rank of Major in the former, but there was in the Indian Artillery. When those two forces became associated in service in India, in order to put them both upon an equality, it was decided to abolish the rank of Major in the Indian Artillery, which did not exist in the Queen's Service, and to make the Officer rise at once from the rank of Captain to that of Lieutenant Colonel, in the same manner as in the Royal Artillery. But in the endeavour to place the Officers then holding the rank of Major on an equal footing they went a little too far, because they gave back rank and made them Lieutenants Colonel dating from the day they became Majors. The result was not that any injustice was done to the Royal Artillery, but that it became a great injustice to the Officers of the Cavalry and Infantry of the Indian Army. In one case, an Officer became a Major General over the heads of a great number of other Officers who had been promoted before him. The matter was brought to the notice of his (Sir C. Wood's) predecessor (Lord Stanley), who determined to cancel so much of that order as gave back rank, and to give the rank of Lieutenant Colonel only from the date of the order. He did not consider there was anything in this which was inconsistent with the clause in the Act transferring the Government of India. The true meaning of that clause was that by the change all officers were to be left precisely in the same position as if the rule of the East India Company had continued, and it was not intended to prevent the Government from correcting a mistake in the same manner as the Company might have done.
 CAPTAIN O'CONNELL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War whether he is prepared to introduce a regulation to enable Roman Catholic soldiers to attend Mass on the holy-days of their Church when they can do so without interference with their Military duties?
 MR. HORSMAN  said, the Motion of his noble Friend involved an important principle, the discussion of which had been most carefully evaded, while the Motion itself had been represented as something entirely different from that which the plainest construction would show it to be. He had listened with admiration to the powerful and glowing speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, but he did not know whether most to admire its eloquence, or to be surprised at its omissions. The right hon. Gentleman carried with him the sympathy of the House when he spoke of the past and the future of Italy, and showed besides how Austria would be strengthened by the surrender of her Ital-
 1189 "My noble Friend stated, that whether we should be parties to a Conference or not was a matter under consideration and would depend upon circumstances…We may enter into a Conference for the purpose of improving arrangements not finally concluded, and still open for consideration; but it is no part of England's duty to make herself simply the recording agent of transactions in which she has had no part or voice."—[3  Hansard, 1190 1191 1192 1193 1194 1195 1196 1197 "In the present condition of Italy, these words are likely to be considered as tantamount to a declaration of war, and therefore we must not expect any diminution of the agitation which now exists in this Peninsula." "I am aware, from a conversation which Lord Clarendon held lately at Compiégne with the Emperor, and which his Lordship repeated to me, that his Imperial Majesty has long looked at the internal state of Italy with interest and anxiety. It may be, although I have no reason for believing such is the case, that he imagines that in a war with Austria, and having Sardinia as an ally, he may play the important part of the regenerator of Italy." 1198 1199
 MR. HORSMAN  seconded the Motion.
 MR. SPEAKER : It is contrary to the rules of this House to refer to debates in another place.
 MR. SPEAKER : The noble Lord is entirely out of order in the course he is taking, in continuing observations which point immediately to discussions that have taken place recently in the other House of Parliament.
 MR. SPEAKER : Such a reference is contrary to the rules and orders of this House.
 MR. HENNESSY : I have listened, Mr. Speaker, with attention to the attacks which have been made by the Government and by the Liberal party in this House on Austrian and Papal rule in Italy. With the exception of what has fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, there has been nothing very new or surprising in these attacks. The fables and fallacies with which the country has been long familiar have been again and again repeated. The supporters of the noble Viscount opposite (Lord Palmerston) have reiterated the old assertions in the old style, and have, as usual, not condescended to back up their statements with even a shadow of common evidence. We have
 1184 1185 "Under the present state of things the manufactories are dispersed through the country in out-of-the-way places, and are compelled to carry on a variety of processes each requiring the nicest management, conducted on principles of patriarchal simplicity which appear to me incompatible with any great extension of trade." 1186 "Almost every branch of statistics is so neglected by the Sardinian state, that I have had some difficulty in obtaining any distinct notion as to the National progress." 1187 1188
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, some ingenious author had written an essay upon historical events that had never occurred, and the occupation of the House that evening appeared to him to have been of a very similar character. They were not only called upon to pronounce an opinion upon an event which was in itself extremely improbable, but hon. Gentlemen had taxed their imaginations in drawing a series of pictures of a great Congress to be held nobody knew when or where, and that, too,
 1182 1183
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just sat down, in the begin-
 1140 1141 1142 1143 1144 "We are about to address direct to the Cabinet of Turin a summons to reduce their army to a peace footing, and to disband the Free Corps, or Italian Volunteers. If this step should produce no effect, there would be nothing left for us but to lay upon the Cabinet of Turin the whole responsibility of the consequences which its refusal will entail, and to declare that their persistance in an openly aggressive attitude gives us back entire liberty of action by freeing us from the pacific promises which we had previously made to the British Government." 1145 1146 1147 Law of Nations 1148 1149 1150 Hansard, bonâ fide 1151 1152 1153 1154 1155 "If you have confidence in the Emperor of the French then there exists no necessity for your taking part in a Congress, inasmuch as he will do all that you require." 1156
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he would also beg to ask the Secretary of State for India upon what grounds Deputy Inspectors-
 1119
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for India whether, as the 56th clause of the Government of India Act, 1858, transferring the direct Government of India to the Crown, guaranteed to the Officers of the Indian Army, the rank, privileges, &c, they held at the time of the passing of the said Act, it is the intention of Her Majesty's Go-
 1118
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I am not going to dispute with the right hon. Gentleman on the part of my noble Friend and myself as to who has the merit of having been the least factious while sitting on the Opposition benches. At the same time I am bound to acquit the right hon. Gentleman of anything like factious opposition on the present occasion, because he has very fairly stated the insurmountable objections he entertains to the Motion of the noble Lord. I congratulate the right hon. Gentleman on his candour, because those who have preceded him in the debate on his own side of the House—the hon. Member for Horsham (Mr. S. FitzGerald) and the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Whiteside)—took a very different view of the question. They, and especially the late Under Secretary, said, "We think this is a proper Resolution to be carried. We are of opinion that it is essential to prevent the Government from going into any conference." But the course of the debate and his reflection on the speeches of my right hon. and noble Friends have
 1237 1238 1239 non sequitur. 1240 1241 1242
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  thought it would be only fair to the hon. Gentleman referred to, who was a Queen's Counsel in large practice, and at that time on circuit, that the discussion of the question should be postponed until Thursday, to give an opportunity of being present to offer any explanation he thought proper to afford to the House. He thought the House ought not to act hastily in the matter.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, it was in the power of the House to adjourn the debate until the evening sitting, and to order in the meantime that the petition should be printed and be ready to be placed in the hands of hon. Members at 6 o'clock. With regard to referring the petition to the Committee of Selection, he doubted if there were a sufficient number of Members of that Committee at present in London to form a quorum. The only course, therefore, which was now open to his hon. Friend was to give notice of the appointment of a Committee for tomorrow. But he thought that no definitive step ought to
 1258
 MR. LYGON  said, that the inconvenience of moving the appointment of a Committee the next day would be that if any of the names were objected to there would be no opportunity of substituting others. He did not think that any great harm could arise from allowing the matter to stand over until next Session. That course had been taken with regard to some election petitions, and he did not see any pressing necessity for an immediate investigation in this case.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that if objection were taken to any name proposed by the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright), the House could divide against that name, and upon its rejection it would be open to any hon. Member to substitute another for it; so that no practical difficulty could arise.
 MR. GLYN  said, he did not wish at that moment to enter into the question of an Imperial guarantee. He merely rose to express his satisfaction at one of the provisions of this Bill, which gave the Secretary of State a new power of creating either capital stock or annuities. He believed that it would be a useful and an efficient provision, and that his right hon. Friend would discover when he tried to raise the money that the market for debentures would be extremely heavy, and that it would be absolutely necessary, therefore, to have recourse to some other mode. He would suggest to his right hon. Friend whether he should not next Session introduce a Bill giving to the present holders of debentures the power, if they chose, to convert those securities from time to time, either when they were due or previously to their becoming due, by negotiation, into the new stock. It would be a convenient mode of dealing with the subject. It would relieve the debenture market, and would give his right hon. Friend a fixed instead of a floating and redeemable stock at a particular period.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he was not aware of any understanding that the second reading of this Bill should be taken without discussion. The Bill was an exemption one, and he should move that the debate be adjourned until the Order of the day came on at the evening sitting.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, his reason for making the proposal was, that if not now read the Bill could not be passed this week. He would propose, therefore, that the second reading should be taken, and then, as was usual at that period of the Session, any discussion might be had on the Motion for going into Committee.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, this was not the first year that Bills on this subject were proposed to be hurried through at the end of the Session; he saw, however, that in the present state of the House it would be useless to divide; he therefore gave notice that, on the Motion for going into Committee, he would move that the House resolve itself into Committee that day three months.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he really could give the hon. Gentleman no information on the subject. He had no control over the Edinburgh Clergy.
 MR. MACKINNON  was understood to say, that the reason why he moved for leave to bring in a Bill at a time when a prorogation was so near at hand was, that the Bill might be printed and circulated through the country, so that hon. Members when they met again might form their opinion on the subject, and thus be in a position to legislate at an early period of the next Session. As some attention had been directed to this question by the strike which had lately taken place in the metropolis, and as many recently elected Members had not had the opportunity of considering the subject, he would briefly state to the House what took place in a former Parliament. Two years ago it was thought advisable by the House a Committee on the subject of Equitable Councils of Conciliation should take the matter into consideration, and of that ordered Committee he had the honour of being the chairman. The Committee had no feeling on the subject except a desire to arrive at the truth in regard to the operation of the present law and to do justice to all concerned. They examined many witnesses, both masters and operatives, men of intelligence and good information and well acquainted with the subject. They also obtained information from France and Belgium as to the
 1273 conseils des prud'-hommes conseils des prud' hommes 1274
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he would take the Roman Catholic Charities Bill in its order. If any discussion was likely to arise, he hoped hon. Gentlemen would consent to postpone it till tomorrow, on the question that the Bill be committed.
 MR. KINNAIRD  seconded the Motion.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  suggested that it was possible to reconcile the two courses proposed. The General Committee of Selection, to which it was proposed by the hon. Member to refer this matter, could not meet before the next day; and therefore he thought despatch would be as well attained if the hon. Gentleman would move to have the petition printed, and give notice of his intention to strike a Committee from both sides of the House, as in the course he proposed to adopt. There had evidently been an attempt to oust the jurisdiction of that House on a question submitted to them respecting a controverted election, and he thought it right that the matter should be investigated. One of the gentlemen implicated in the arrangements was, he believed, a Parliamentary agent, who was on the roll of agents of that House, and was therefore amenable to their authority.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that as he had already done on former occasions, he must again protest against the doctrine that the finances of India were exclusively the concern of India, and that that country must be left to depend entirely on its own resources. Such a doctrine could only stand
 1262 1263
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that amongst the Orders of the day was a Bill for continuing the exemption of Roman Catholic Charities from the general law; and this being a day on which Motions took precedence of Orders this had occurred; that at three o'clock this morning it was proposed that the House should meet at one to-day, and that Orders should have precedence of Motions. The effect was to contravene the Standing Orders of the House, and this particular Bill would be brought in at a morning sitting upon a day when, according to the usual practice, it would have stood for the evening sitting. He wished to know when the right hon. Gentleman proposed to take the Charitable Trusts Bill.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that to put himself in order, he would move the adjournment of the House. He wished to remark that the paper delivered to hon. Members, although it contained a number of Orders for the morning sitting, made no reference whatever to an evening sitting.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  was understood to say, he quite agreed with the hon. Member for Evesham (Sir H. Willoughby) that it would be far more convenient that he should reserve anything he had to address to the House on the subject of the Indian army until the next Bill on the paper [The European Troops (India) Bill] came on for discussion. As to the great question of an Imperial guarantee, it was a matter of such vast magnitude and importance, and one on which such diametrically opposite opinions were entertained, as, indeed, had been somewhat exemplified in that debate, that, if discussed at all, it ought not to be discussed in the incidental and imperfect manner which was alone possible on that occasion. The Government had not deemed it advisable to make any proposal of that kind at present. At the same time he had thought it incumbent on him the other night to intimate his opinion that circumstances might hereafter arise when it would be the duty of the House at any rate to give that subject its most serious consideration. He did not, however, believe that the occasion had yet arisen, or that there was any pressing necessity for the consideration of the subject. He had also previously stated that the
 1269 1270 alter ego
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether the Edinburgh clergy were compelling payment of the Annuity Tax by imprisonment?
 MR. BRIGHT  observed that such being the case he would ask leave to withdraw his Motion, with the view of moving the next day that a Committee of seven be appointed to inquire into the allegations of the petition.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he wished to remind the House that from the present state of the Session it would be impossible that anything could be done in this matter unless it were done immediately. In consideration of the special nature of the case, he therefore proposed that a Committee should be appointed. With regard to notice, he might mention that so far back as Friday last notice was given to Mr. Overend that the matter would be brought under the consideration of the House, and on the previous evening a formal communication had been made to his agent of what was intended to be done. He had done what he had undertaken to do in bring-
 1257
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he had been requested to present a petition from Mr. Childers, one of the candidates for the borough of Pontefract at the last election. The petition stated that at the close of the poll the petitioner was in a minority of ten, the numbers being, for Mr. Overend 306, for the petitioner 296. A petition complaining of the return was presented in due course, the recognizances completed,
 1255
 MR. BRIGHT  continued to state that the matter did not go before the referee. It was suggested that the arrangement could not be carried out without incurring the danger of a breach of privilege. At all events, after the petition had been withdrawn, and there was no chance that Mr. Overend's seat would be disturbed, he interposed difficulties to the fulfilment of the contract; and instead of accepting the Chiltern hundreds, he preferred to retain his seat. The allegations contained in this petition were very precise, and if they were true, there was no doubt that the petitioner had been—what should he say?—defrauded, and the borough of Pontefract debarred from its proper representative in that House. He did not know what course the House would think fit to adopt under the circumstances, but if he were permitted to present the petition, he would then take the liberty of moving that it be printed, and that a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into and report upon the allegations of Mr. Childers relative to the circumstances under which his petition, complaining of the return of the borough of Pontefract, was withdrawn, and that such Committee be appointed from the general Committee of Selection.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he then wished to give notice that he should the next day move the appointment of a Select Committee to take the allegations contained in the petition into their consideration, and to report thereon.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he understood the hon. Member was only stating the substance of the petition.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the course taken was in accordence with the rules and Orders of the House. When the House met before two o'clock the rule was to adjourn at four o'clock and meet again at six o'clock, and though no doubt it was a fault that no dis-
 1271
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he must remind the hon. Member that he could not make a statement unless he intended to conclude with a Motion.
 MR. JOHN LOCKE  said, he would then conclude by moving for a Select Committee. The petitioner complained that his son, being under 15 years of age, had been enlisted by Sergeant Thomas for the 96th Regiment of Foot, the latter making to the magistrate a representation that the youth was 18 years of age, under which age his enlistment would have been illegal. The mother was subsequently prevented by Sergeant Thomas from proving her son's real age, and Sergeant Thomas was also accused of having represented to the boy that he would have 1 s. d.
 MR. JOHN LOCKE  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the case of enlistment, in Her Majesty's 96th Regiment of Foot, of the late Private James Caulfield, who, when under 15 years of age, was enlisted in that regiment at Westminster, on the 23rd of September, 1857; and, his discharge having been refused, he died from the rigours of discipline, at Park-hurst Hospital on the 21st of July, 1858. But for the lateness of the Session, he would have asked for a Select Committee.
 1275
 MR. MALINS : Will the Orders have precedence in the evening?
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he felt very much disappointed at the restricted and narrow view taken by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for India on introducing this Bill of the pecuniary liabilities of that country, and the manner in which such liabilities were to be met. During the next four or five years it would be necessary to provide not only for a large amount of East India bonds and debentures, but also, upon the security of the revenues of India, for the large sums required to complete the railways in progress in that country. He therefore regretted the right hon. Gentleman had not taken a comprehensive purview of the whole matter. He had on a former occasion objected, and he repeated his objection to any guarantee being given by this country for a loan raised for the service of India. He thought, however, that Parliament should do as it had done on former occasions of much less pressing emergency; it should interpose to borrow money on the credit of this country, and then lend it again for the service of India, taking some specific adequate security for the repayment of the debt. If the right hon. Gentleman went into the market to borrow £5,000,000 on Indian debentures the attempt would be a failure; or, if the right hon. Gentleman succeeded in obtaining the money, it. would be on terms that would be tantamount to failure. The money could not be had under £5 or £5½ per cent. On the other hand the right hon. Gentleman could get any amount of money at 3¼ per cent on the credit of England. Another advantage of the plan he suggested would be, that it would raise the position of the other Indian securities then in the market. He was aware that at this period of the Session it would be useless to attempt anything in this matter. His object, however, was by calling attention of the House to prepare the House for the full consideration of the subject next Session. The time could not be far distant when this country would be called upon to relieve India from her present difficulties. He regretted to hear from a right hon. Gentleman in that House that India was of no value to England, and he should further regret that such a statement should pass current in this country. He would just mention a few figures
 1261
 MR. HANKEY  said, he wished to draw the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the very anomalous and arbitrary principle upon which the present scale of duties on probates of wills was constructed, and to point out the necessity which existed for effecting an alteration and improvement. Its operation was most unjust. The scale rose in a progressive ratio up to £1,000, and then decreased, but without any regularity; so that the duty payable on £1,000,000, at which sum the maximum of charge was reached, bore no proportion whatever to that charged on £l,000. This state of things was a great temptation to fraud, and he thought that the most advisable course would be to fix a regular per centage, as in the case of other duties, whatever the amount of property might be.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was of opinion that in any rational arrangement of the probate duty the stamps should be adjusted, so far as the nature of a duty of that kind would admit, in such a manner as to constitute the same  ad valorem
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  stated that it was not in the power of the Government to apply any portion of Votes for Miscellaneous or Civil Service Estimates to any purposes but those for which they were specifically granted.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that he believed that if the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets had ever been a single day with a Native regiment, the House would have been spared the remarks—for which there was no foundation—that he had just made on the subject of the Native army. A gentleman who had never been out of Bombay
 1264 minimum s. maximum s. 1265 The Times: "The first thing to do is to recognize the fact that India is now as much a portion of the British empire as Yorkshire or Westminster. To suppose that we can go on spending lavishly and borrowing recklessly, and that we can at some future day repudiate the obligations entered into by our
 1266
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that the petition affected the honour of a Member of the House; consequently it affected by implication the honour of the House itself. It was their duty, therefore, to see whether the accusations contained in the petition were correct or not, and he thought that measures for the purpose should be adopted without delay.
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for India whether it was true, as had been reported, that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Devonport (Mr. Wilson) had accepted a very important appointment in connection with Indian finance? As he had himself given notice that he would that evening move some very important resolutions relating to that subject, he was anxious to know whether the right hon. Gentleman had accepted the proposal made to him to proceed to India. On the general question now before the House he would not detain them long. He had already stated his opinion that Parliament would, at an early date, have to take into serious consideration the expediency of giving India the benefit of an imperial guarantee. There was no doubt that the borrowing powers in India were almost exhausted, and in corroboration of that assertion he might state that out of a loan of £5,000,000 attempted to be raised at 5½ per cent in India the Government had been able to obtain only £1,000,000, although the loan had been before the public for a very considerable period. This country had not hesitated to go into the market for £20,000,000 sterling for the emancipation of the negroes in our West Indian colonies; it had also raised £10,000,000 for the mitigation of the sufferings of Ireland; and it had even pledged its credit on behalf of Turkey. Why, then, should it haggle and  finesse
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, all gentlemen connected with India seemed very anxious to have the guarantee of the capital and industry of this country for their loans, and no doubt it would be the most effectual guarantee possible. The present embarrassment of the finances of India was owing to the extravagance of the Government. They had been promised that the Government in this country would exercise a direct control over India, but that was not so; a most important despatch had remained unanswered for twelve months, and that showed how little the Government in India cared for the control over them. It would be a most fatal mistake to grant an Imperial guarantee. A paper currency was the only way to reestablish equilibrium in the finances of India. Retrenchment ought to commence in the home department of the Government. Any money required could he raised without a guarantee; and if once they commenced the system it would never be put an end to, and there would be a stop to all ideas of retrenchment and economy.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : No; the usual rule will be followed.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought that the course proposed by the hon. Gentleman was, to say the least, somewhat premature. The hon. Member had presented a petition, the substance of which he had stated. It did not appear, however, that that petition complained of any corrupt compromise, as that the compromise was improperly entered into; but that a compromise having been entered into, and it having been agreed that the petition against the return for Pomfret should be withdrawn, and a scrutiny entered into before a referee, being a Member of this House, the sitting Member had declined, after the petition had been withdrawn, to fulfil his part of the contract, and desired to keep his seat and set aside the reference. Now, he did not know that that was a question of which Parliament could take cognizance; but it certainly involved a serious charge against the honour of a Member of the House. He would suggest, therefore, that the hon. Gentleman should first move that the petition be printed, so that it might be in the hands of hon. Members. He was not aware that any breach of privilege had been committed; but the House could, if it thought fit, make an order that the hon. Member for Pontefract should attend in his place. At all events, he ought to have sufficient notice that such a petition had been presented, and have the opportunity of appearing in his place and answering the charges contained in the petition, which clearly implied that he had not taken the course which a gentleman under such circumstances would feel incumbent on himself to pursue.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he rose to order. The hon. Member was stating matters seriously affecting the honour of another hon. Member without notice, and in his absence.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to ask whether the sum of £150,000 voted for the Gibraltar telegraph cable was so appropriated as that it could not be applied to any other purpose.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  remarked that he was also anxious to know something about this financial council. Being acquainted with the peculiar character of the civil service in India, he thought that unless great precautions were used they would make "confusion worse confounded," and do very great mischief. He considered that the question of Indian finance was in a rather perilous condition; but there was one point which he certainly could not understand. It was, who by law had the power of borrowing money upon the revenues of India? It appeared to him that the House, after having destroyed the Company, had no option but to look boldly in the face the question which related to that dependency, its finances, and its army. With respect to finance, he thought it was necessary that the borrowing power should be under one control, place that control where they would; and he had the highest opinion of what the Secretary of State and the new Indian Council had done since they had been in existence. In fact, the House knew little of how well and ably they had performed their duties. But he was persuaded that the power of borrowing and charging the revenues of India must be placed in one set of hands; for nothing could be more unwise than borrowing large sums of money in this country, and at the same time borrowing by open loans in a period of difficulty, and so destroying our own finances.
 1268
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  observed that the announcement of an Imperial guarantee for a new loan would rather injure the holders of the older stocks. But the question of an Imperial guarantee was too large to be discussed at that moment, and it must eventually come before Parliament. When the right hon. Secretary for India made his statement with reference to Indian finance, he informed the House that a right hon. Gentleman was about to proceed to that country to set its finances to rights, and he wished the right hon. Baronet (Sir Charles Wood) would state distinctly what position that Gentleman was to occupy. He had understood the right hon. Baronet to say that this defect existed in India—that the same officials who were responsible for the collection of the revenue were not responsible for its expenditure. He had always supposed that the Governor General in Council
 1267
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he quite concurred in the suggestion of his right hon. Friend. The matter had come upon the House by surprise. The hon. and learned Member for Pontefract, it appeared, was on the northern circuit; but it was possible that he might be in his place to-morrow, and if a Committee was to be appointed he certainly thought that the hon. and learned Member, or some one should be there to represent him, and that the Committee should be constituted in so fair and impartial a manner as to command the confidence and respect of the House.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said, it was true that there was not a quorum of the General Committee of Selection in town at the present moment.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he rose to move that Mr. Speaker do leave the chair, in order that the House might go into Committee on this Bill.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he merely wished to observe that he had recently presented two petitions from Scotland against the provisions of this Bill.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, that in order that the provisions of the Bill might be effectually carried out, it was thought expedient to give borough justices large powers.
 MR. MURRAY  objected to the inspectors of gasmeters, who had to decide questions between both vendors and purchasers, being nominated by the purchasers only— namely, by the town council. He therefore would propose an Amendment, the effect of which would be to insert words giving the nomination of these officers to the recorders in those boroughs which had separate sessions.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he thought that the appointment ought to be left to the town council in every case, who were always the proper and best guardians of their own funds.
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  said, he thought the Amendment ought to be allowed. He was not aware that in Sunderland, of which town he was recorder, or anywhere else, any objection had been made to the exercise of this power by the recorder.
 MR. TURNER  objected strongly to placing this appointment in the hands of recorders, as the power might very possibly lead to jobbery.
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  suggested that recorders of places which were counties as well as boroughs were not at present excluded by the existing language of the Act.
 MR. SPOONER  observed that, in his opinion, the Amendment was a very good one, and as to the suggestion of the hon. Member for Manchester, he imagined there was no foundation for it, as recorders, generally speaking, possessed no local inte-
 1299
 MR. JOHN LOCKE  said, he could not agree with the remarks of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire. He thought the recorder was the very worst person who could be selected to make these appointments; because he could know nothing whatever of the merits of the inspectors except through the town council. He did not see why inspectors of gas should be appointed by different authorities than those who had the appointment of inspectors of weights and measures.
 MR. HUMBERSTON  remarked, that considering the interests of the public, the Committee would do well to leave these appointments in the hands of the town councils.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  observed, that to say that a town council could not be trusted to appoint an inspector when they had so many other appointments in their hands seemed ridiculous. Speaking for himself as a recorder, he should be glad to be relieved of the responsibility; but the truth was, as had been stated, that the recorders had only a very transitory acquaintance with boroughs, and these appointments would often become the mere nomination of a clique.
 MR. MURRAY  said, he thought it wrong upon principle that these appointments should be in the hands of a town council, when there was an officer of superior authority in the borough, who was perfectly independent.
 MR. MALINS  said, he represented a town which had a town council, but not a recorder. He must therefore vote against his hon. Friend if he persevered in his Amendment. But he went further, and thought that no worse authority could be selected for these appointments than the recorders, who had little or no local knowledge.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that as the Committee had decided who were to be the appointers, he thought it was now right to decide who were to be the appointees. He would, therefore, move an Amendment which would have the effect of providing that a certain number of these inspectors should not be police constables.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he must oppose the Amendment.
 MR. DEASY  said, he wished to express his concurrence in this objection, so far as Ireland was concerned.
 MR. P. O'BRIEN  said, he would move that the Chairman report progress.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he should have no objection to withdraw the clauses relating to Ireland, but he begged to say that these clauses were strictly copied from the Weights and Measures Act.
 MR. CRAUFURD  suggested that, as there had not been time to communicate with constituencies in Scotland, the measure should be confined to England.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  hoped that his hon. Friend the Member for Dudley would not allow the success of this Bill to be imperilled, as be believed it would be of such great advantage to England. There was no reason why it should not be of equal advantage to the gas consumers in Ireland. He proposed, therefore, that the clauses relating to Scotland and Ireland should be omitted for the present, and that his hon. Friend should bring up a clause relating to Scotland and Ireland on the Report.
 MR. O'BRIEN  said, that on this understanding he begged to withdraw his Motion.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he would move the omission of the clause,
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  defended the charge, observing that the meters at Liverpool were perfect, and that the people of that town were entirely satisfied with them.
 MR KINNARD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India whether Her Majesty's Government has received any official information as to the gross outrages committed in the early part of the year in the Province of Travancore by the Natives of the Soodra caste upon the Shanars and others of like caste, and if any authentic intelligence has been received as to the discontinuance of such outrages, and if Her Majesty's Government has sent any instructions to the Governor of Madras or any other Indian authorities in relation to this case?
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he fully agreed with the right hon. Baronet on one point— that the day when the Government commemorated the close of the Session was not a proper time to enter into a discussion of the great question—the organization of the Indian army, and he therefore objected to this very important branch of that question being brought forward at such a period. He must also complain of the way in which the Bill had been hurried on. It was introduced on Saturday morning last, was read a second time at the morning sitting of the same day, without any explanation, passed through Committee yesterday morning, and was now brought forward for a third reading. A Bill of such importance ought not to be dealt with in that manner, and he did not think there were sufficient grounds for it. The Royal Commission, by a majority, had recommended that no local army should be maintained at all, and if with the view of leaving undisturbed existing interests a local European force should be maintained, it ought to be kept within the present limit. In the face of that recommendation it was proposed, however, by this Bill to increase the number beyond the present limit. He could not speak in the same light terms as the right hon. Baronet of the mutiny which had occurred in the local forces. He did not say the men had no grievance, but there was a proper manner in which they could have made their grievances known. A serious feature of that mutiny was the corres-
 1307 1308 1309
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that in his opinion the European regiments of the Indian army had committed a gross act of insubordination; but it did not amount to a military mutiny, except in the case of the regiment that had intrenched itself in its quarters, and elected its own officers. In the other regiments no bad feeling on the part of the men towards the officers had been exhibited. Never was a thing so grossly mismanaged by the Indian Government as this had been from the beginning. If such a feeling had arisen in any regiment of the Crown, the circumstances would have been fully explained to the men. In this case the soldiers were told that the Attorney General had decided against them; had they been told the Adjutant General had decided against them they would have been quite satisfied. He agreed with the right hon. and gallant General (General Peel) in thinking that the worst feature in the case was the fact that all this correspondence had taken place between the various regiments without its coming to the knowledge of the officers. In another point, the Indian Government had been unjust to part of the Native army. The customary donation batta was withheld from the army that went through the Persian war. A greater mistake could not have been made. The Native troops were embarked at Bombay for the sea voyage without making any objection, though it was repugnant to their religious prejudices, and on previous occasions the Bengal troops had refused to embark. They brought the war to an end in six months. On returning home they found the other Native regiments of the Bengal Presidency in open mutiny, and murdering their officers. Two of the Queen's regiments that made the campaign in Persia afterwards formed the column that relieved the garrison of Lucknow; the native troops of the Persian army under Sir H. Rose, gained the victories of his campaign in Centra! India. Was this an army that should have been made an exception to the usual custom, by refusing it the batta? These troops vo-
 1312
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, it was to be regretted that a Bill relating to such an important subject as the organization of the Indian army should have been brought in at the very end of the Session. Earl Canning had the right of deciding what should be done with the European regiments, and he appeared to have gone wrong at first, and then to have stuck to his first decision. When he was told that the law officers of the Crown had given an opinion on the case he should like to see what case was submitted to them. The attestation of men enlisting for the Indian army was such that the soldiers might well believe that they were in the right. He quite agreed with the determination of the late and present Governments to maintain a local European force in India; the question was as to the amount of it. The objection to raising that force above a certain amount was, that it interfered with the recruiting for the Queen's army in this country. The Government had not dealt fairly with the soldiers in reference to their pensions, a subject he should bring before the House next Session.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he would give his hearty support to the Bill. He had read the evidence before the Commission with great attention, and it had convinced him that the maintenance of a local European force in India was a necessity'; the great question was as to its numbers. By law it was limited to 20,000 men, or with the number in the depôts of this country, 24,000 men. The object of the right hon. Gentleman was to increase that number to 30,000. There were at present 23,800 Europeans in the Indian service, and 92,000 of the Queen's troops. He did not think there was much force in the objection of the gallant officer (General Peel); they had the men in one force or the other. As to what was called the mutiny or insubordination of the European regiments, he took the view of the Secretary for India. He could not call that a mutiny where the men had such a strong case. As to the remarks of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) on the training of the officers of the Indian army, he believed they were trained as well and their attainments stood as high as the officers of any service in the world.
 MR. RIDLEY  said, this was a Report of very considerable interest, and he thought that, instead of the Motion that it he printed with the evidence, it would be advisable to print it separately, so that it might very shortly be in the hands of hon. Members. If the two were printed together, they would have to wait a month or six weeks before they could look over the Report.
 GENERAL UPTON  remarked, that when he was in India he always found that the Company's officers regretted most strongly that the army was not one body instead of being two distinct forces. In his opinion, fifteen years was quite long enough for European regiments to remain in India.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that the hon. and gallant Member (General Peel) had misunderstood what he had stated in reference to the Indian depôts; he said that the best way to make use of these men in the event of their service being required would be to distribute them amongst the other battalions, which could not be done unless they volunteered from their own regiments. No doubt they could be used as depot battalions at any moment or any service that the Crown might choose. The hon. and gallant General had addressed the House in two characters, as one of the majority of the Commission which reported against a local force, and as a Member of the Govern-
 1311
 MR. AYRTON  said, that in vindication of what he had said on a former occasion as to the needlessly large proportion of European officers in the Native Indian regiments, he wished to state that the opinion he had expressed was that of officers of great Indian experience, as was shown by many passages in reports by Sir H. Frere, Colonel Green, and General Jacobs, who had all testified to the necessity of changing the system, and of causing the cadets first to join European regiments, and having learned their duty in them, and passed their examination, then being appointed to Native regiments. He thought the gallant officer (Colonel Sykes) owed him an apology for the remarks he had made in reference to him, though the gallant officer's authority did not appear to be so
 1313
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he wished to make an inquiry of the Government as to an alleged appointment which he had been informed by a high authority had been made. It was understood that the First Lord of the Treasury and Prime Minister had offered to an hon. Gentleman to promote him to the office of Vice-President of the Board of Trade, and it would be interesting to the House to know whether that office had been vacated, and when the new appointment took place.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I think it will be admitted that the hon. and learned Member for Pontefract has set himself quite right with the House on this matter. Whatever may be the general decision of the House on the subject itself, I believe he has shown that he has been actuated throughout this business, as far as he was himself concerned, by that sense of honour which I trust will always regulate the conduct of every Member of this House. I have no desire in any way to question the motives which may influence Mr. Childers. I remember Mr. Childers when he was a Member of this House. ["No."] I thought that the petitioner was the gentleman whom we all remember with respect; and if it had been he, I was about to say that I should be glad to see him again in this House; although perhaps he and I might not often have met in the same lobby. But I see no reason to doubt that the gentleman whose petition is before us has been guided by motives as correct as those which have unquestionably guided the conduct of the hon. and learned Member for Pontefract. I know very little of these transactions. I read the petition this morning, and it is only, I believe, within the last forty-eight hours that I have heard of the possibility of the subject being brought before us; and, indeed, when the hon. Member for Birmingham alluded the other night to a borough in the north of England where there had been a compromise, I was quite in the dark as to the case to which he referred. But I read this petition this morning, and certainly it is a very remarkable petition. My impression is that it treats of circumstances which, strictly speaking, ought not to be brought under the cognizance of this House. They are circumstances with regard to which we must appeal to that principle of honour
 1291 1292 1293 1294
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he rose to ask at what time during the sitting the Bill would be taken the next day, for they had been waiting for it for two days, but it was so low down in the Orders that it was impossible to judge when it would come on. He wished, therefore, to obtain an accurate idea of the time when the Bill would be proceeded with.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, be wished to be informed at what time the House would meet.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, information had been received from the Governor of Madras, disclosing the grounds of this transaction, which took place some time ago. The Government had prepared a despatch upon the subject, but before it was sent off a second despatch had been received from the Governor of Madras stating that the whole matter had been settled to his satisfaction, and the Government had approved of that settlement. He might at the same time mention that it took place with the authority of the Governor of Travancore, and if the hon. Member would move for the Papers they should be laid upon the Table.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that when the Bill was last before the House an arrangement had been entered into by which the Bill had been allowed to pass through its second reading without discussion, on condition that he should at the present stage give some explanation of its object and provisions. He would therefore at once proceed to redeem the pledge he gave on that occasion, and state the reasons why it was necessary at so late a period of the Session to pass the measure. Almost from the earliest period of the existence of the East India Company, they had power to maintain a certain number of European troops in India. Previous to 1799, the portion of those troops who were undergoing training in England or were on their passage, were not under military discipline. In 1799 an Act passed which removed that anomaly, and brought them under military law, but the number was limited to 2,000. In 1853, when he was President of the Board of Control, an application was made to him by the Marquess of Dalhousie, then Governor General, to increase the number of Company's troops beyond the then existing limit—12,000. The first step he took in consequence of that application was to consult Lord Hardinge, who had been Governor General of India, and who was then Commander-in-Chief of the British Army, and who united in his person the best means of forming a sound opinion, and by Lord Hardinge's advice, he assented to the proposal to increase the number of Company's troops by three regiments. In order to do so, it was necessary to increase the limit imposed by the Act of Parliament, and in the 31st clause of the Act of 1853 the limit of the number to be maintained out of the Indian revenues was increased to 20,000, and the number training in England or on passage to India to 4,000. There was a doubt whether the gross amount of troops chargeable on the Indian revenues was 20,000 or 24,000. Up to the period of the mutiny there was no question as to the legal effect of the clause, because the number did not
 1302 1303 1304 1305 1306
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, the evidence taken before a Select Committee was no test of the extent to which bribery had prevailed at an election, and the circumstances detailed by the hon. Member showed the necessity of an inquiry by a Commission in this case. If a Commission were not appointed, the country would expect that at least the Committee would continue the inquiry they had begun. But that mode of inquiry would impose too great a burden on hon. Members, and considerable expense would be incurred in bringing witnesses up to London. He therefore cordially supported the Motion for a Commission.
 MR. BRADY  said, that he opposed the Motion not on the grounds stated by the hon. and gallant Colonel, but on the ground that Commissions were always jobs. He never knew an instance in which a Commission such as had been moved for was appointed that some lawyers were not enabled to make a grand job of it. For instance, a short time ago there was a Commission to inquire into certain acts of bribery which were alleged to have been committed in Galway, and what had been the result? The Commission reported, but no further step was taken. A writ was moved for Galway, and Galway, he supposed, had been entirely cleared of bribery. Why should not those who had been proved to have bribed voters at the late election
 1318
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he would then move that Mr. WALPOLE, Mr. CRAUFURD, Captain JERVIS, Lord ROBERT CLINTON, Mr. SELWTN, MR, PHILLIPS, and Mr. G. C. GLYN be appointed the Committee for the purpose of inquiring into the allegations in the petition.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the evidence in the case was in the hands of so few persons that no difficulty could arise as to how they should take it or go into it. He was not the accuser of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Pontefract, and therefore he should not conduct the case against him.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he was not about to offer any reply to the speech of the hon. and learned Member, as he did not stand there in the position of an accuser. He was as anxious to leave town as other hon. Members, but when Mr. Childers and his friends asked him to present this petition he felt that the case was one which was of a nature that scarcely allowed him to refuse. He had, therefore, presented it to the House, and he now submitted a list of hon. Members who, it must be admitted on both sides, would form a fair and impartial Committee for the examination of the allegations contained in the petition. The hon. and learned Member had rather complained that proper notice had not been given him of the proceeding; but according to a memorandum with which he (Mr. Bright) had been furnished he was assured that the hon. and learned Member had received verbal notice that the petition would be presented to the House before he left the referee at three o'clock on Friday; that
 1287 1288 1289
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that pursuant to notice he rose to move the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the allegations contained in the petition of Hugh C. E. Childers, Esq., presented yesterday.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it was competent for the hon. and learned Gentleman to explain, but not to make a reply.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the usual course was that the Chairman of the Committee who brought up the Report moved that it and the evidence be printed, and they were consequently printed together. But if any alteration of that course were made it could only be by the desire of the House or of the Chairman who brought up the Report.
 MR. SPEAKER : The House will meet at two o'clock to-morrow.
 COLONEL SMYTH  said, it was not his duty to defend the conduct of the constituency of Wakefield at the late election, but he would appeal to the House whether there were sufficient grounds for the inquiry for which the hon. Gentleman had moved. This, he believed, was the first instance in which any charge of any description had been made with regard to the borough of Wakefield. He happened to reside in the neighbourhood, and he knew that hitherto the elections had been conducted with great purity, and he believed he was justified in saying that there was a unanimous desire on the part of both the political sections in the town and on the part of men of all classes that another
 1317
 MR. HODGSON  said, that in the absence of the Chairman of the Select Committee which had lately reported on the Wakefield Election, he rose to move an Address for a Commission to inquire into the corrupt practices at the late election for the borough of Wakefield. The Committee met on the 27th of July, and after one day's examination of witnesses agreed to the following Resolutions:—
 "That William Henry Leatham was by his agents guilty of bribery at the last election for the borough of Wakefield. "That William Henry Leatham is not duly elected a burgess to serve in the present Parliament for the borough of Wakefield. "That the last election for the said borough is a void election. "That it was proved to the Committee that Thomas Beaumont has been bribed by the payment of £10; that John Jackson has been bribed by the payment of £30; that John Cousins has been bribed by the payment of £25; and that George Senior has been bribed by the payment of £30. "That it was not proved that such bribery was committed with the consent of the sitting Member. "That there is reason to believe that corrupt practices have extensively prevailed at the last election for the borough of Wakefield." 1316
 MR. COBDEN  brought up the Report of the Committee on packet and telegraphic contracts, and moved that it be printed with the evidence.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, before the question was put he wished to ask a question as to what mode of inquiry was proposed, and how it should be conducted? Did the hon. Member for Birmingham propose himself for conducting the case on one side, and another gentleman for the other side. The gentlemen concerned could not, of course, conduct their own case, and the hon. Member for Birmingham could scarcely expect the Committee to initiate the inquiry.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he was not aware that the office in question had been vacated, nor had he had any knowledge of the fact which the right hon. Gentleman had mentioned. He had heard it stated as a rumour that the present
 1298
 MR. DEEDES  said, it would be departing from the usual custom to print the Report and the evidence separately.
 MR. MASSEY  replied, that the Bill would stand the first on the paper for next day.
 MR. OVEREND  said, it was his wish to explain. It was not the fact, as stated by the hon. Member, that the papers of the other parties had been folded up when he offered to agree to the reference. With respect to his agent, the communications alluded to by the hon. Gentleman took place after the agreement had been signed.
 MR. OVEREND  said, he could assure the House that he felt no small degree of humiliation and mortification that the first occasion on which he had the honour of addressing was in justification of his own conduct and vindication of his own honour. However, he did not complain that his Friend, Mr. Childers, had presented this petition, because if that gentleman entertained the feeling that he (Mr. Overend) had been guilty of a breach of duty, it was much more agreeable to his feelings to have it stated openly in that House, instead of expressing his opinion in private to his friends, and so allow him the opportunity of
 1277 mala fides 1278 "L. [meaning Mr. Leeman] offers to withdraw the record upon my agreeing with him to refer all questions arising out of the late action [which meant the election] to a Member of the House of high standing on our side; both parties to be bound by his decision. May I consent? I think it a fair offer and intended for a dignified withdrawal. Telegraph reply at once." 1279 bonâ fides "On the other side you will see my telegram. I do not understand it, but I have put myself in Rose's hands, and told him to do the best for me. 'All questions arising out of the late election' cannot possibly involve my giving up the seat, in any event, I should think."
 MR. OVEREND  said, he rose to—
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that in reference to the opinions quoted by the Member for the Tower Hamlets, he might to observe that Sir H. Frere was a civilian; Colonel Green's remarks he thought an error of judgment, and the statements of General Jacobs only applied to local and irregular troops. A Native regiment that in cantonments was so tractable that it gave no more trouble than a child, became useless in battle the moment it lost its European officers. The more European officers there were to a Native regiment, the more certain they could be of its services. A Native regiment of 1,000 men might be managed by four European officers when in cantonments, but not on the line of march or in battle array. As to the Bill before the House, he entirely concurred in the necessity of it. India could not be governed without a local army acquainted with Indian habits and associations, and accustomed to regard India as its home. Without such an army the Indian Government would be placed in the utmost possible danger. The opinion of the Commission that had been alluded to was only the opinion of the majority of officers upon it who had no Indian experience, against the minority who had
 1314
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he was convinced that the existence of a local European force would be the sole means of preventing India being denuded of European troops. He wished, however, that some arrangement could be made for the appointment of the officers of this local army by the Horse Guards instead of the East India Company. He felt sure it would be for the benefit of India if they had only one class of officers in place of two.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he entirely concurred with the right hon. and gallant Officer that depôts and recruits were completely available for the service of Her Majesty in England as well as in India. He believed they were as amenable for any duty that may be assigned to them as were the Grenadier Guards. He should be very sorry if it were otherwise. But he entirely disagreed with the right hon. and gallant Member as to a German army. It was to be regretted that German legionaries were sent to India and were there now. He did not believe that they had fired a shot, but according to reports from Southern Africa he was afraid that, unless they were looked very sharply after, ill consequences would occur between them and the Natives. Circumstances in former times had obliged the English Government to take considerable bodies of foreign troops into their pay. Nothing, however, but the necessity and emergency of a great war could render such a measure expedient. The right hon. and gallant Gentleman seemed deeply impressed with the guilt of the local troops in India, speaking of their conduct as a great and serious mutiny, which had changed the opinion of Lord Clyde and General Mansfield as to local troops being maintained. There was no extenuation admitted for their insubordination. But for his own part, he would not call it a mutiny. Eighteen months ago, in February 1858, the Prime Minister of England stated that the army in India would consist of the Queen's troops and a local corps whose service would be confined to that country. With regard to the Queen's troops no change, the Prime Minister stated, would be necessary; but the troops of the Company would be transferred to the Crown, and those soldiers who disliked the change would, he thought, in common justice, be entitled to their discharge. This declaration of the Prime Minister was widely circulated in India, and passed from one regiment to another, in which there were many men both intelligent and well educated. How
 1310
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I agree with the right hon. Baronet the Member for Petersfield that, as it seems to be the general opinion of the House that the Motion of the hon. Member for Birmingham should be carried, we should abstain upon the present occasion from entering into a discussion of the merits of a question which is to be submitted to the consideration and investigation of a Committee. I therefore regret that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) should have given us his opinion as to the effect and tenour of the agreement of which we have heard so much, because that is one of the points which must come before the Committee. I ventured' yesterday to suggest to the House that if the mere question raised by the petition was whether, a compromise having been entered into by the hon. Member for Pontefract with Mr. Childers, the former
 1295 "Mr. Cariss then stated that he had been with Mr. Overend at Newcastle throughout the previous day (Sunday); that Mr. Overend had instructed him not to enter into any examination, or to draw up any statement whatever, and that Mr. Overend said he did not understand that the seat was involved in the reference; that Mr. Wilkinson thereupon expressed the greatest surprise, reminding Mr. Cariss of all that had passed at the inter views in London, and asked, if the seat was not the question, what was? That Mr. Cariss was long unwilling to answer, but at length said it was the sum Mr. Overend should pay Mr. Childers as consideration for giving up the petition, and, perhaps, that Mr. Overend should not stand at another election." 1296
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he would suggest that the Committee should call the agents before them, and then decide upon the best course to be pursued.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he thought the Indian Government was not exclusively responsible for the Indian mutiny. The House of Commons was in some degree to blame. When the settlement of the Indian Government was under discussion, it omitted to make the transfer of the service of the Indian army quite clear, in the section of the Act relating to the military force. A small donation on their being transferred to the service of the Crown would probably have prevented the difficulty that had arisen as to the Company's forces. He agreed with what had fallen from the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster on the question of a local force and the troops of the line. The House should bear in mind that these troops were paid for out of the Indian revenue over which they had no control. It had always been a constitutional principle that the army of this country should be paid by money voted by the House, and he thought that the army for India ought to be a local force, maintained out of the revenues of that country.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, the Report was founded on the evidence, and would he of little use without it.
 Mr. CAIRD  said, one of the objections of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down was that nothing followed from the appointment of a Commission in the case of Galway. But although nothing was done in that case, the facts elicited by that Commission would probably have great effect in the discussion of the forthcoming Reform Bill next Session. In this case of Wakefield the fact that sums of £40 and £50 had been paid to voters, who, however, in every case voted against the man from whom they took the money, showed clearly that there must have been very strong reasons indeed to have influenced them thus to vote. He had sat upon the Committee. and although their inquiry had been a short one it was their unanimous opinion that there was the strongest ground for issuing a Commission.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  observed, that he should not have said a single word on this subject, had it not been for the observations that fell from the hon. Member for Birmingham at the conclusion of his speech. The hon. Member had obtained what he had sought for—the investigation of a Committee; and therefore he regretted that the hon. Gentleman should have so far prejudiced the matter as to make a downright condemnatory censure upon one of the parties concerned. For himself he must say, that the first time he heard of this matter was when the petition was withdrawn. He knew nothing of any arrangement entered into in the matter; and he had only heard of the controversy when it was proposed to be gone into before his noble Friend. He had attended at that meeting; but the whole of what took place had been described with so much fulness and accuracy by his hon. and learned Friend, that there was nothing left for him to describe to the House except this one fact, that he certainly understood that Mr. Leeman fully admitted that all through the course of these transactions Mr. Rose had declared to him that on no account would he allow the seat to be called in question; and he even admitted that when the agreement was brought to him to sign, some controversy took place on the question whether it did or did not involve the question of the seat. But in the face of all that Mr. Rose stated on that head to Mr. Leeman, he on the part of Mr. Childers put his name to the agreement. How that gentleman, whose acuteness was beyond
 1290 ex parte
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Sir, a deputation of Master Builders was introduced to me at the Home Office a few days ago; they stated that their object in applying for an interview was to explain the grounds upon which a difference had arisen between themselves and the working men of their trade. They made statements showing the reasons which had determined their conduct, and they also expressed to me an opinion—in which I could not concur—that it would be desirable that either this House or that Her Majesty's Government should take some part in arbitrating between themselves and the men, with the view of bringing about an accommodation. I stated that, although I thought the House of Commons was admirably fitted for the performance of its proper functions, I believed one of the means which had enabled it to maintain its authority and character, not only in this country, but throughout the world, was by abstaining from interference in affairs for which it
 1342
 MR. FITZROY  replied, that it was his intention to proceed with the works proposed by Mr. Hawksley, not as stated by his hon. Friend for the purpose of partially cleansing, but of totally and effectually cleansing, the water in the Serpentine. He thought that great misapprehension prevailed upon this subject. Two questions, which were quite independent of one another, had been mixed up in this discus-
 1344 1345
 MR, SPEAKER  said, the hon. Member had transgressed the limits imposed by the rules of the House with reference to questions, which ought only to be addressed to Ministers of the Crown with regard to matters affecting public business, or to hon. Members who had charge of measures before the House.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  observed, that as it was necessary to send the Bill back to the Lords, perhaps the House would allow it to be read a third time and passed.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, he would move to insert after the words "Judge Ordinary alone," the following:—
 "Providing always, that such Court does and shall hold a sitting for the disposal of the business of the said Court for not less than two consecutive days, at the least, once in every fortnight from the 2nd of November to the 10th of August in every year, except during the periods allotted for the attendance of the Judges upon their circuits, or for the ordinary vacations."
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he concurred in the object of the hon. Mover of the proviso, but he doubted whether fixing a  minimum minimum
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the clause had been inserted by the Lords, and he moved that it be expunged.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he objected to legislation which did not apply to the whole empire.
 MR. SERJEANT DEASY  said, that if this clause of the Bill was agreed to, extending as it did the operation of the Act to Ireland, it would be most objectionable, not only to the Roman Catholic but also to the Protestant portion of the population of that country. Another objection to the clause was, that it would be introducing into Ireland the operation of a foreign tribunal, as it would enable parties contracting a marriage in Ireland—where the marriage contract was indissoluble, by transferring their suit to London, to obtain a divorce. The clause, moreover, would be an interference with the regularly constituted tribunals in Ireland.
 MR. BOWYER  said, he trusted the Government would throw aside all thoughts of extending the Divorce Court to Ireland, as such legislation would be entirely contrary to the feelings of the people of that country.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, that the feelings of the women ought to be consulted in this matter as well as those of the men. He did not believe the Divorce Court was in conformity with the wishes of the women of England, and he thought the House ought to retrace their steps and abolish the system altogether.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, that clause would establish a dangerous precedent. The Judges in these days were incorrupt and incorruptible; but still it would be unwise to remove them from that salutary influence of public opinion and public responsibility to the operation of which publicity was indispensable. In the trial of Horne Tooke, Lord Ellenborough ordered that no evidence should be published  de die in diem, Morning Chronicle in camerâ. 1369
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the whole principle of this enactment was publicity; and the question simply was, whether a greater amount of public justice would not he attained by the introduction of the exception to that general rule contained in this clause than without it. The hon. and learned Gentleman seemed to think that the object was to prevent the publication of details. He the (Attorney General) was willing to admit at once that the clause had been framed for the sake of public decency; but when he had explained the reasons for its introduction, he was sure the Committee would per-
 1370 1371
 MR. AYRTON  said, the learned Attorney General had made out a very ingenious case of special hardship arising out of the existing practice; but there was no principle of law from the inflexible operation of which the wit or the imagination of man could not conjure up some small modicum of inconvenience to individuals. They were asked to enter upon a course of
 1372 1373 in terrorem
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he could not but express his regret that the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets should have thought fit to conclude his otherwise excellent speech by an unbecoming attack on "another place." The hon. Gentleman had characterized the upper classes as less moral than those below them.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, it was impossible that justice could be satisfactorily administered in this country with closed doors, as the strength of our laws was in public opinion, which supported the law. The effect of the proposed clause would be to screen the powerful and rich while it exposed the failings of the poor. There were persons in this country whose names could influence the bench in granting secrecy which a poor man could not obtain. ["Oh, oh!"] He would remind the hon. Gentleman who said oh, that when a man went into a Court of Law in this country, he was on an equality with any man of any class. He hoped the House of Commons would prevent such an enactment as this.
 MR. BRADY  said, the hon. and learned Attorney General had not convinced him
 1374
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he had often heard a word misapplied in that House and elsewhere—namely, the word un-English. That word, he thought, was peculiarly applicable to this clause, which was opposed to all the principles of English law. He wished to ask the Attorney General how the Judge was to be informed when a case was of such a nature as that it ought to be heard with closed doors or not, unless he were privately informed of the fact, or deferred to the station of the parties. That objection alone was fatal to the clause.
 MR. BOWYER  said, he was one of those who strongly opposed the Divorce Bill, on the ground that it would be most injurious to the morality of the country. Now, after it had been in operation a short time, the Attorney General was obliged to come forward, in the name of the Government, and propose the introduction of an entirely new principle in the English law, namely, enabling a Judge to shut up his court and proceed secretly. The fact was that the proceedings in the Divorce Court had become so scandalous, and were so injurious to the public morality, that the hon. and learned Gentleman felt bound to introduce this clause.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it must not be supposed that this clause was pointed against the public press. No such thing. It only pointed to the prevention of that denial of justice which the present state of things caused, which he had endeavoured to point out. The hon. Member for Bristol was mistaken in supposing that the Judge could receive information privately. [Mr. BERKELEY: I did not say so.] The only communication made to him would be by counsel of the nature of the evidence, and on that statement the Judge could exercise his discretion on his own responsibility. The clause was the result of the experience of the Judge Ordinary, and at his suggestion it had been inserted in the Bill. If it were passed into law,
 1375
 MR. JOHN LOCKE  said, there was a discrepancy between the argument of the Attorney General and the wording of the clause. The hon. and learned Gentleman urged it was to spare some females the pain of speaking in an open court, and thus prevent an inconvenience which often resulted in a denial of justice; but the clause gave the Judge the power to close the doors of the court whenever the interests of public decency appeared to him to require it. If the reason given with the clause were to prevail, it was obvious it could not stop at the Divorce Court; for there were many cases tried in other courts where decency appeared to forbid publication.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he hoped the Attorney General would not press the clause to a division. He had acted in perfect good faith with regard to the suggestion of the Judge of the Divorce Court. It would pain him to have to vote against the hon. and learned Gentleman.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that he was in the position of being an advocate for the clause with no one to support him. He agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Southwark, that the clause did not contain words which would carry out the object he had spoken of. The mere words, "preservation of public decency," did not refer to the point to which he had alluded. Under all the circumstances he would bow to the decision of the Committee without putting them to the trouble of a division.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, he would move that it be omitted. It had been described before by the Attorney General as harmless, and he believed it would prove entirely nugatory. Its object was to provide, that where the Judge suspected collusion or fabrication in a case brought before him, he should have power to refer the petition to the Attorney General, who might examine into the matter and report. Now, he objected to this, that it was merely encouraging indolence in the Judges by transferring to the Attorney General that which the Judge himself had power to do. Whenever the Judge suspected collusion he had power to call the parties before him, and to put them on their oaths. The Attorney General had neither time nor power to do any such thing; and all that he could do would be to hand the case over to some  employé,
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the clause should be looked at, not as it stood, but with the power it gave the Court to make rules and regulations for carrying out its provisions. Great difficulty had been felt in cases where a dissolution of marriage was claimed on the ground of adultery, owing to many of these being undefended cases. The petitioner produced only such evidence as he thought proper, and the Court could only know anything about the case from that. It was felt that there was a danger of divorces being obtained on fabricated cases by collusion, even when adultery had not actually occurred. Hence, the proposal that some officer should be appointed to assist the Judge in such cases. The clause was intended to work thus:—Supposing a petition praying for a dissolution of marriage, to which there was no defence or any person offering opposition to the petition, it would be imperative on the Judge to refer it to the Attorney General, and the petitioner would be required to give the Attorney General particulars of the acts relied on by him in support of the allegations of the petition, and the names and residences of all witnesses and persons connected with the case since the alleged adultery was committed. In a great number of such instances, the Attorney General at the first aspect of the case would be able to detect whether it was characterized by good faith
 1377
 MR. MELLOR  said, that no provision was made in the clause for giving the Attorney General power to do that which it had been suggested he ought to do. It did not enable him to hear evidence on oath or to make any other inquiry than the parties chose voluntarily to submit to. Altogether the clause was so crudely framed and seemed so insufficient for the objects desired, that, unless it could be amended, he must vote against it.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that he was anxious to observe that the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Baillie Cochrane) seemed to imagine that he had expressed an opinion with regard to peers and other persons of distinction which he did not mean to express. What he meant to say was that peers and other persons of distinction were more sensitive to publicity than other persons. With regard to the clause before the Committee the hon. and learned Member for Marylebone had described it as perfectly harmless but perfectly useless. From the description given by the Attorney General, however, he thought it was hurtful as well as useless; for, if it were adopted, it would be necessary for the future to have, in point of fact, two suits—one before the Attorney General to find out whether there was collusion, and another before the Judge to decide very much the same facts as had been already investigated by the Attorney General. Such a double inquiry, he need hardly say, would add very seriously to the cost of the proceedings. Now, the Attorney General could not institute this inquiry himself; he must ne-
 1378
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, he wished to move the insertion of a clause after Clause 6, empowering the Court to inquire into the existence of any ante-nuptial or post-nuptial settlement, in those cases in which a decree of nullity or dissolution of marriage was granted, and to make such order upon it for the benefit of the husband and children as they might think fit. It often happened that a wife had a handsome income settled upon her by her husband at the time of her marriage, and if she were divorced on account of her own adultery, she ought not to be enabled to live with the adulterer upon that income which she had received from the generosity of her husband.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he was willing to admit the object of the clause to be a good one, and he should not oppose its introduction into the Bill if the hon. Member for Devizes (Mr. Darby Griffith) would consent not to press the clause of which he had given notice, to the effect that in every case of judicial separation, when the whole of the property which might be the subject of the marriage settlement of the parties might have been settled to the separate use of the wife, it should be lawful for the Court to order such provision by way of alimony to be made to the husband out of the property of the wife, as the Court would, under ordinary circumstances, have given to a wife in a similar case. The principle which the hon. Member had
 1379
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he had given notice of a clause somewhat different from the one before the Committee, inasmuch as it referred, not to cases of dissolution of marriage, but of judicial separation. It was to enable the Court to make provision for the husband, by way of alimony, out of the property which he had settled upon his wife at the marriage.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, he would agree to the words "or a decree of judicial separation" being added to his own clause, with regard to the case of a decree of nullity of marriage.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he wished to move a clause to the effect that a right of appeal to the House of Lords should extend to all sentences and final judgments, or petitions under the Legitimacy Act, 1858.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the hon. Gentleman bad raised an unnecessary difficulty, for although the Bill was fourth on the paper, it was virtually first, the others having only formal Amendments to be made to them.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the order for the Return referred to by the hon. Gentleman had been made so near the end of the Session that there was not time to comply with it, and it never had been renewed, as it ought to have been, after the assembling of the new Parliament. If the hon. Member would repeat his Motion, the particulars asked for would be furnished. With regard to the second question, the Act alluded to fixed the salaries of the Chief Clerks in the Taxing Office at the sums the hon. Gentleman had mentioned; but there was also another class of clerks in the same office, whose salaries were not specified in the Act, but were fixed by the Lord Chancellor at £120 a year.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he must decline to follow hon. Members into the controversial part of the question. He had only one remark to make as to the expression which had fallen from the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, upon what he was pleased, by a singular metathesis, to term the "speudo" bishop of South Wales.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : At any rate, the hon. Member was speaking of orders in the Church of Rome; and, of course, it was well known that orders of the Church of Rome were recognized by the Church of England. He would merely notice that point, and abstaining altogether from crimination or recrimination on this subject, confine himself to a few words, in which he would endeavour to explain and vindicate the course taken by the Government; and further venture to make a few remarks as to the future prospects of this question. The hon. Member for Perth (Mr. Kinnaird) had complained of the conduct of the Government, and had intimated his intention of using all the forms of the House for the purpose of defeating the Bill. He begged, however, to draw the hon. Member's attention to what had been the course pursued by the Government, and what had been laid before the House. He would also remind him that although many Governments had made promises, he (Sir George Lewis) was the first person who had attempted to deal practically with the question. He had introduced a Bill, but owing to circumstances to which it was unnecessary to advert, it was not submitted to the House until a late period of the Session; and as he found that those whose interests were principally affected by it entertained strong objections to its provisions, and as at this time it was impossible that it could receive due consideration in the other House, he had come to the conclusion that the best course would be to withdraw the measure, and to renew the continuance Bill; but at the same time he gave a distinct pledge that he would, early in the next Session, lay upon the table a Bill similar in effect to that which he had proposed this year, with the view of obviating for the future this exceptional legislation. He trusted
 1364
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, if the Government acceded to the recommendation of the hon. Gentleman, they would have to begin  de novo,
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that he desired to state that it was his intention to propose to alter the month mentioned in the Bill from September to July, as being the limit of the operation of this measure. It was originally July, but was altered in the Lords.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, the right hon.
 1367
 MR. KINNAIRD  stated that a Petition on the subject had been presented by the hon. Member for Gateshead (Mr. Hutt), signed by a large number of Roman Catholics in the north of England, who were as much opposed to this Bill as the hon. Member for North Warwickshire. He most earnestly protested against such perpetual trifling with so important a question. He was very far from blaming the Roman Catholics for seeking to delay in that House the settlement of the question, but he deprecated a sacrifice of principle on the part of the Government for party purposes. So far from strengthening themselves by so doing, he believed it would have an opposite effect. The noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs when, in 1853 the Roman Catholics were exempted for two years only from the operation of the Charitable Trusts Act, distinctly stated that the provisions of that Act ought to apply to Roman Catholic as well as Protestant charities, and that he only wished to postpone its operation in the case of the former, in order that a Bill might be introduced which would provide against the confiscation of such charities. This was in 1853; and now six years after they have again asked to postpone the consideration of any such Bill, though four successive Governments had distinctly pledged themselves to bring in a Bill to settle the question. And at the close of the last Session, when a continuance Bill similar to the present was introduced the right hon. Gentleman the late Home Secretary distinctly stated that it was for the last time. He would ask why the right hon. Baronet the present Home Secretary had given up his own Bill? That Bill had been suddenly dropped and a Bill introduced into the House of Lords which they were asked to pass at this late period of the Session. He entirely concurred in the opinion that those who were interested in Roman Catholic charities had committed a mistake in claiming exemption for them
 1363
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I think, Sir, it would be very unadvisable to lay these papers on the Table. They all relate to negotiations now going on, and their presentation had better be deferred till they can be produced before Parliament in a complete shape.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he would beg to ask the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether, before the House is prorogued, he will lay on the Table of the House all the correspondence that has passed between the noble Lord and Lord Cowley and Sir James Hudson since the Treaty of Villa-franca?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  rose and said, the hon. Member for Cork has questioned my right to appear here as the advocate of the
 1354 1355 1356 Hansard, a latere. Appeal 1357 virtute officii 1358 1359
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he would take
 1351
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, if the proposition which he had made were adopted, there would be no reason why all Roman Catholic charities should not be brought within the operation of the general law. The object of this opposition on the part of the hon. and learned Member for Dundalk was to prevent malversations in regard to Roman Catholic charities being discovered. It was desired to keep these things in the dark, but he would impress upon the Government and the House that they should all be inquired into.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he wished to inquire whether the Government would substitute for the first enactment of the Bill a clause suspending the operation of the Superstitious Uses Act, which would bring the whole of the Roman Catholic Charities under the jurisdiction of the Charity Commissioners? If the Government meant to deal effectually with this question and avoid embarrassments in another Session they must have the general law on their side, not the exceptional, otherwise Cardinal Wiseman, who regulated the conduct of a large number of Members of the House, would continue his rule. If the Government would suspend
 1366
 MR. NEWDEGATE : I did not speak of a pseudo bishop; I only said that the Bishop of New South Wales was a pseudo title.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, in reply, that his attention had been directed to the Address, and that no reply had been made to it. The facts of the statement, however, had not been denied by the Directors of the Poor of Marylebone, and he understood that great improvements had since taken place in the ventilation and area of the workhouse.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, that the Chief Commissioner admitted that the filtering beds would require nearly three-quarters of an acre, and he should like to know how they were to be constructed without being extremely nasty, offensive, and injurious to the health of the neighbourhood. The only course that ought to be taken was to take out all the foul water, and to supply fresh water in its stead. The plan of Mr. Hawksley did neither the one thing nor the other, and he contended therefore, that it had all the elements of a faulty arrangement, and was not likely to be successful.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he hoped that next year all the powers of the Charity Commisssioners, which were very large, would be taken into consideration, and that they would not be permitted longer to make schemes behind the backs of persons, and in a clandestine manner.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he rose to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether or not it is his intention, on the part of the Government, to grant the Stewardship of the Chiltern Hundreds, or any of the other appointments commonly employed to vacate a Seat in the House of Commons, to any Member against whose Return a Petition was now pending, previous to or during the period of the Recess, and before the reassembling of Parliament next Session?
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, that when two such authorities as the hon. Member for Coventry (Sir Joseph Paxton) and the hon. Member for Whitby (Mr. Stephenson) disagreed, some allowance ought to be made for the Commissioner of Works; and he certainly did not deserve the language applied to him by the hon. Member for East Surrey (Mr. Alcock). Every one agreed that the Serpentine required purifying—the only question was as to the mode of carrying it out. The right hon. Gentleman the Commissioner of Works seemed to have taken advantage of the best engineering skill, and the matter might safely be left in his hands.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether he has any objection to state to the House the object and the result of a Conference held with him by a deputation of the Central Association of Master Builders on Tuesday last upon the subject of the Builders' Strike and Nine Hours' movement?
 MR. KNIGHT  said, he believed this Bill to be "a job." It had been introduced into the House of Lords at a late period of the Session, and hurried through its stages in that House at unseasonable hours. For instance, it passed through Committee at Two o'clock in the morning. It had not been printed as amended, and it was impossible to tell how it then stood. The professed object of the Bill was to provide for improved education of attorneys and solicitors. There was no fault to find with the first clause which professed to improve the education of solicitors by enabling persons who had taken a degree at a University to be admitted to practise as attorneys two years earlier than those
 1380 Law List
 MR. CLAY  said, that as the hon. Member for Whitby (Mr. Stephenson) was present, and as his opinion on this subject had been referred to, he should be glad to ask that hon. Gentleman whether he thought the scheme proposed by Mr. Hawksley was likely to be successful?
 MR. BRADY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department why the Returns, ordered on the 29th day of July, 1858, "of the number and the names of the Taxing Masters of the Court of Chancery in England; of the several Clerks in their offices, and the dates of their several appointments; and Statement of the duties of each, the hours
 1353 Vict., Vict.
 MR. SPEAKER : The House reserved to itself the power of allowing an hon. Member to move the adjournment, even in the case of asking a question; but he need scarcely inform hon. Members that it was not usual to do so, and that if the practice were persisted in, it would very soon put a stop to the business of the House. He did not mean to say that the hon. Member had not the power to move the adjournment, but he must inform him that it certainly was not a usual course.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  (in the absence of Mr. Cardwell) said, that it appeared from inquiries that had been made, that prior to the 10th of July last the conduct of the regiment in question had been creditable and soldier-like, but on that day some unfortunate disputes occurred between either a soldier or some of the soldiers of the regiment and some civilians, in the town of Kinsale, and on the 12th of July a party of the artillery, in coming up the street of Kinsale, attacked a Roman Catholic clergyman, and the consequence of that attack was that a riot took place in the town of an apparently formidable character, and it lasted for the space of thirty-two hours. The result of that riot was that a large number of windows were broken and some injury done to property; but when all was over it was found that, whilst serious injuries had been inflicted on several men of the regiment, no serious
 1352
 MR. HENNESSY  said, the question before the House was a very simple one, and did not require the importation of the historical and theological elements which the hon. Gentleman had mixed up with it. According to the existing law certain Roman Catholic Charities and Charitable Trusts would be forfeited if they were brought under the cognizance of the Charity Commissioners. To prevent that forfeiture the Earl of Derby had recommended, a few nights ago, "in another place," that the Government should introduce a Bill of exemption for one year. Acting on that suggestion, the Government had introduced that Bill, the sole effect of which was to protect from confiscation under penal laws that were still unrepealed, and which all allowed to be bad, property which had been bequeathed by pious Roman Catholics for religious and charitable uses. He, therefore, declined to enter into the character or conduct of the distinguished Prelate whose name the hon. Member who preceded him had so unnecessarily introduced.
 MR. ROEBUCK  inquired whether it would be competent to the hon. Member for Whitby, in conformity with the Orders of the House, to speak upon any other question than that of adjournment?
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he wished as a question of order to ask the Speaker, whether it was competent to one hon. Member to ask the opinion of another hon. Gentleman, who was a private Member of that House, on such a subject?
 MR. O'BRIEN  observed that it was desirable to have the opinion of the hon. Member for Whitby on the subject; he would have been able to give it, and this irregular discussion would have terminated long before, but for the interruption of the hon. Member for Sheffield.
 MR. O'BRIEN  said, he trusted that no hon. Member would oppose the universal opinion of the Roman Catholics who were to be dealt with under this particular Bill.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he could assure the hon. and learned Member for Dundalk (Mr. Bowyer) that the Roman Catholics need fear no attack on their property by the Protestants; but the Protestants were determined to have no more Continuance Bills, and to bring the Roman Catholic charities under the beneficial operation of the general law. Why was every other class of Her Majesty's subjects to be under the control of the Charity Commissioners and the Roman Catholics alone exempted? He believed that it would be beneficial to the Roman Catholics themselves if all their trusts were brought under the operation of the general Act. His hon. Friend and Colleague had been blamed for his language and his bitterness against the Roman Catholics. He felt no such bitterness; but he felt, and he (Mr. Spooner) also felt persuaded at this time there was a foreign interference with the Roman Catholics of this country which it behoved the House of Commons to put a stop to. Dr. Wiseman was not acting as an Englishman, but under foreign dictation; and when his Friend alluded to Bishops of the Roman Catholic Church it was not to Bishops in their own Churches but to Bishops illegally assuming dioceses in this country; and, in his (Mr. Spooner's) opinion, both the present and the late Attorneys General had neglected their duties, and ought to be impeached for not taking steps to prevent the breach of the law, which was of constant occurrence, by the description of Roman Catholic Bishops in handbills and placards as Bishops of Manchester, Liverpool, Birmingham, and other
 1365
 MR. SPOONER  said, he would not further oppose the Continuance Bill if it were limited to the 1st July next.
 MR. SPOONER  seconded the Motion.
 MR. STEPHENSON  said, that although he did not feel very sure that he was quite
 1347 1348 1349
 MR. ALCOCK  said, that he would second the Motion for the adjournment of the House, as he thought they ought not to separate without arriving at some more satisfactory solution of the question than had been proposed by the Chief Commissioner of Works. He regarded the plan of that right hon. Gentleman as very unsatisfactory. At seven or eight o'clock in the evening the water of the Serpentine was downright pestiferous, and he did not see why the same plan of purification which had been adopted so successfully with regard to the Ornamental Water in St. James's Park should not be applied to that river. It was a disgrace to the Government that such a body of putrid water should be the only place to which thousands of the residents in the metropolis could resort for the purpose of bathing. If the present Chief Commissioner of Works did not understand matters of this kind, why did he not obtain the advice of people who did understand them, instead of persevering in a stupid and obstinate course? ["Order."] He was sorry if he had used words which were unparliamentary, because he wished to treat the right hon. Gentleman as a friend; but he really feared that he would lose all the credit he had obtained for energy in other offices, and bring discredit on the Government and himself, by pursuing a course which would bring detriment to the park and to London.
 MR. HANKEY  said, he wished to ask the President of the Poor Law Board if his attention has been directed to the Address of the Inspector of Metropolitan Workhouses to the Directors of the Poor of St. Marylebone, delivered on the 11th of July, 1857, to which no reply appears to have been given.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he thought these religious discussions in the House of Commons were exceedingly disagreeable. He did not accuse the hon. Member for North Warwickshire of bitter-ness and hatred towards the Roman Catholics, but rather of too warm an affection, which induced him perpetually to meddle with their affairs. He thought, however, that the hon. Gentleman would do well to confine his attention more strictly to matters connected with his own Church, where
 1362
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, this was a matter on which any man with the use of his five senses could form an opinion as well as the best engineer. He also took a personal interest in the matter as he lived close to the Serpentine. He had observed its condition narrowly for the last two years, and he could not subscribe to the opinion that it was not in an offensive state. On the contrary it was far worse
 1350
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I understand the question of the hon. Member for Devizes to imply an opinion that, at all events, in a case when a Petition is pending, and the Stewardship of the Chiltern Hundreds is applied for, upon the simple ground that such Petition is pending it should be the duty of the Chancellor of the Exchequer not to grant the application. Now, Sir, I am bound to say that I do not take that view of the duties of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. I do not think he would be bound to refuse, or that even he would be justified in refusing the grant of the Chiltern Hundreds upon the simple ground that a Petition was pending against the return of the person who applied for the Stewardship; and perhaps, as this matter had been referred to on several occasions, I may say that I think the hon. Gentleman's question proceeds upon a misapprehension of the duty of the Chancellor of the Exchequer with respect to this grant. The House of Commons has always shown the utmost jealousy, and in my opinion a most proper jealousy, in reserving to itself exclusive jurisdiction in every matter with respect to the election of its Members, and my belief is that this House would resent most strongly any interference from any quarter, but especially on the part of a Member of the Executive Government who might assume to himself
 1343 locus standi.
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, that in order to afford the hon. Member for Whitby an opportunity of expressing his opinion, be would move the adjournment of the House.
 MR. BOWYER  said, that in his opinion the House could not, without committing a gross injustice, refuse to assent to the Bill. He might not, perhaps, be able to convince the hon. Member for Warwickshire of that, because that hon. Gentleman lost no opportunity of showing the most perverse bitterness and hatred against the Roman Catholic Church and its professors. The hon. Gentleman had that evening appeared in a new character. He declared he was acting for the protection of certain Roman Catholics, but he (Mr. Bowyer) believed that there was not one Roman Catholic in England, Ireland, or Scotland who would not at once repudiate his protection. The hon. Member spoke as if he were the advocate of the Roman Catholics, and yet his speech teemed with all the misrepresentations, calumnies, and rubbish which had been spoken, as well as Written, for years and years against the Roman Catholic Church. He had most unnecessarily introduced the name of Cardinal Wiseman, who had nothing whatever to do with the matter before the House. The disrespectful introduction of the name of that illustrious Prelate into the discussion was offensive, not only to all Roman Catholic Members but also to sensible and gentlemanlike Protestants. The hon. Member had calumniated that illustrious person, and spoken of him with a bitterness which only reflected discredit upon himself. The simple
 1361
 MR. BOWYER  said, he wished to state that hon. Members had an impression that the effect of this Continuance Bill would be to prevent the Court of Chancery from exercising any jurisdiction over Roman Catholic charities. That was not so. At the present moment all Roman Catholics might proceed in the Court of Chancery in reference to Roman Catholic charities, but in that Court the Attorney General must be a party, and that fact protected the property from forfeiture under the law of superstitious uses and under the Enrolment Act. The Charity Commissioners, however, had powers much stronger and more summary, and amongst others that of investigating the whole matter relating to any charity without the assistance of the Attorney General or the Court of Chancery. The effect of this Bill not being passed would, therefore, be that these Commissioners, in performing their duties, would be obliged to declare these charities forfeited.
 MR. ARNOTT  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland the nature of the official Reports made by the Civil and Military Authorities who investigated the recent rioting at Kinsale, and of the Complaints made to the late Government as to the conduct of the Antrim Regiment of Militia, when stationed at Carrickfergus, on or about July, 1858; and also what steps will be taken with regard to the Antrim Militia in consequence of their recent or of their former conduct.
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  said, he would beg to ask the First Commissioner of Works if it is still his intention to proceed with the Works as proposed by Mr. Hawksley for partially cleansing the water in the Serpentine.
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  said, he was the last man to put his opinion on any subject of engineering in competition with that of his hon. Friend who had last spoken, and who was undoubtedly at the head of his profession; but he did not think this was altogether an engineering question. He (Sir Joseph Paxton) was quite satisfied that Mr. Hawksley's plan would not answer. The proposed filter-bed would only hold a small quantity of water, and he believed that under the plan suggested there would not be a difference of one-eighth of an inch in the level of the surface of the lake. He would venture to say that if the plans were carried out there would not be the slightest change in the water beyond the bridge. His hon. Friend had condemned the system of pouring lime into the Serpentine, and in that opinion he concurred, because, however advantageous it might be to put lime into the Thames, in a lake like the Serpentine it destroyed the fish, which acted as the best filterers of the water. He might observe, however, that according to Mr. Havvksley's plan it was proposed still to pour lime into the Serpentine along the banks.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, that the First Commissioner of Works having consulted him on the proposed plan, he had satisfied himself of its perfect practicability, and that everything to be desired would be accomplished by it. It had been suggested that the water from the lake in St. James's Park should be pumped into the Serpentine; but the fact was that the water there filtered through the concrete bed into the well, and was pumped back again into the lake. The practical effect of that recommendation would therefore be to empty the lake. Complaint had been made of the dangers of the Serpentine to bathers. But at an expense of a few hundred pounds a sufficient portion of the shore of the Serpentine could be levelled for the safety of bathers who could not swim. All good swimmers preferred deep water, and they would go where they could get it. As to the sewer at the Bays water end, the scheme of the Metropolitan Board of Works would cut off all the sewage which polluted the Serpentine. The plan under discussion, therefore, practically secured all that was required, and there never was a mechanical and engineering problem of more easy solution.
 MR. FORSTER  said, that in the absence of his hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham (Mr. Scholefield), who had given notice of the Question, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty whether any intention exists to issue any new warrant affecting the position of Masters in the Navy.
 MR. FITZROY  said, he was afraid he could scarcely give a satisfactory answer to the question, as he had no written document to refresh his memory; but, so far as his recollection served him, he would state what took place on the occasion to which the hon. and learned Gentleman referred. He believed that the deputation waited upon him under the erroneous impression that some new application on the subject of Sunday Bands had been made, or was about to be made to him. The Deputation went, consequently, into the merits of the whole question, discussing it in a religious point of view. He replied that he fully agreed with them as to the right of every man to the enjoyment of one day of rest in the week, and that he would be most unwilling to be a party to anything that would affect that right; but at the same time he stated that the performers who composed the band were free agents, and undertook the duty voluntarily; that according to the showing of the deputation, vast numbers of persons frequented the parks to enjoy the music; that the privilege had been continued for several years; that no complaints of riot or improper conduct had been made with respect to the parties frequenting the parks: and that he would not feel justified in abolishing the existing practice, which had been so long continued without leading to any inconvenience.
 MR. PIGOTT  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Poor Law Board if his
 1387
 MR. GILPIN  said, the subject had occupied the attention of the President of the Poor Law Board, but he could not give any assurance as to his intention to introduce a Bill on the subject.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had not seen it; and perhaps it would be better if the hon. and earned Gentleman read it to the House.
 MR. MALINS  then read the official copy of the Report, which stated, amongst other things, that at the last election for Hull, 487 persons were employed by Mr. Hoare, and 493 persons on behalf of Messrs. Clay and Lewis, as messengers, amp;c.; that more than 300 of the persons employed by Mr. Hoare were voters for the borough, and were paid by his agents for such employment sums varying from 2 s. d. s. "That it does not appear to the Committee that any act of bribery was committed with the knowledge or consent of the said Joseph Hoare, Esq., who appears to the Committee to have always
 1388
 MR. PULLER  said, he had no authority to express on behalf of the Committee any opinion, one way or the other, whether this writ ought to be issued. They did not take that question into consideration. The Committee wished that the evidence should be printed, and that he would move; but, speaking for himself, he did not wish to
 1389
 SIR GEORGE GREY  was in hopes that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and who had been Chairman of the Committee, would have explained to the House why the Report of the Committee was couched in these terms. The Report did not say, as was usual in other Reports, that Mr. Hoare had been unseated on the ground of bribery, nor was there any distinct statement that Mr. Hoare had by his agents been guilty of bribery. It appeared to him that the only possible inference that could be drawn from the Report was that Mr. Hoare was unseated on the ground of bribery through his agents; while at the same time it was reported— what was very creditable to him, but not so unusual a remark in reports of Election Committees as the hon. and learned Member for Wallingford supposed—that Mr. Hoare had done his utmost to prevent bribery. If the Chairman had told them that the Committee had come to the conclusion that Mr. Hoare was not duly elected, yet it was not on the ground of bribery, the Sessional Order would not have stood in the way, and the writ might have been issued at once. But he could not put that construction on the Report. Mr. Hoare must have been unseated on the ground either of bribery or treating. Treating was not suggested, and therefore, considering the only influence that could be drawn from the Report, the Sessional Order was not to be set aside merely for considerations of the convenience of the borough.
 MR. CLAY  said, there could be no doubt it would be a great inconvenience to violate the Sessional Order; but it would be a greater to keep the borough in suspense for six months. The object of that Order was that the House should not be taken by surprise in issuing a writ to a borough, which had been proved to have misconducted itself, or whose conduct might appear to call for inquiry. But he had no hesitation in stating, from his own personal knowledge, that this was not the case in the present instance. With regard to the hon. Gentleman who was yesterday his colleague, he felt certain not only that that Gentleman had no cognizance of bribery, but that he had done everything man could do to make his agents respect the
 1390
 COLONEL GREVILLE , as a member of the Committee, concurred with the Chairman in the opinion that there was no ground for withholding the writ. He occupied a peculiar position respecting this application, for had he been present to be sworn on the Wednesday this Election Committee might have met On Thursday morning, and the proceedings might have terminated two days ago. As it was, they did not meet until the Saturday morning, and though they sat for ten hours it had been found impossible to finish in time to give the requisite notice. If the writ were not issued now, it would be tantamount to a six months' notice, and this, he thought, would be hard measure to the constituency.
 LORD HOTHAM  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster (Sir George Grey) regretted that Hull should be put to inconvenience; and he also regretted that there should be a postponement of the writ for six months; but let him (Lord Hotham) ask the right hon. Gentleman where was the necessity for that regret? Hon. Members had assumed that to-morrow would be the last day of the Session; but the Session would not be closed until the business of the House had been disposed of, and he imagined that to keep the representation full was one of its first duties. If Her Majesty had intended to prorogue Parliament in Person he would not have interfered: but as it was understood that it was to be prorogued by Commission he saw no inconvenience if the prorogation were postponed
 1391
 SIR GEORGE GREY  was of opinion that to postpone the prorogation of the Session for the purpose of issuing the writ would not be a desirable course to pursue, inasmuch as the day for the prorogation had been fixed by Her Majesty for tomorrow. The best plan he thought which could, under the circumstances, be adopted would be that the hon. and learned Gentleman should give notice that he would move the issue of the writ to-morrow, and at the same time move the suspension of the Sessional Orders, so that one day's notice might serve instead of two.
 MR. MALINS  said, he should have given two days' notice if circumstances had admitted of his doing so; but as matters stood he would withdraw his Motion, and give notice that to-morrow he would move the suspension of the Sessional Orders, and also the issue of the writ.
 MR. HADFIELD  should be glad to know what the expense of this Commission would be. Reports weighing no less than eleven tons had been made by similar Commissions, but nothing had been ever done upon them, nor had a single individual living ever read them.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, it was but too true that the inquiries of these Commissions did not produce the desired results; but he believed that was the fault of the House, and not of the Commissioners. In the Galway case the existence of extensive corruption had been clearly brought to light by the Commissioners, but a desire had been shown by Members on both sides of the House to screen the culprits.
 1393
 MR. O'BRIEN  thought that if this Commission was issued one Commissioner would be quite as good as three, which would be a considerable saving of expense.
 MR. MELLOR  said, that with respect to the Galway case he believed the charge of the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Griffith) was justified by the result, the House having managed in that instance to render nugatory the Report of the Commissioners. Inquiries of that description would be nothing better than a farce and a sham unless the House should resolve to give them practical effect, and until he saw better evidence than had yet been furnished of its determination to carry out its professions in those cases he should oppose the appointment of Commissions.
 MR. BRADY  looked upon all these Commissions as a complete delusion, and no beneficial result could come from them. If the House really wished to put down bribery, let the Committees recommend that the persons bribed and the persons bribing should be prosecuted. The only object of the Commission appeared to be to give employment to three barristers during the long vacation.
 MR. MALINS  said, that he also had a strong opinion against issuing these Commissions. There had been already fifteen inquiries of the kind, the results of which were embodied in fifteen blue-books, which he would venture to say fifteen persons had never read. It was hardly possible for poor people to resist the temptation of sums larger than they had ever possessed or even hoped to possess: but why did not the House proceed against the bribers? If they would resolve that when a Committee found that a person had practised bribery that person should be prosecuted by the Attorney General, they would be doing something towards putting an end to these discreditable practices. It was not the poor man who accepted the bribe that was most to blame in these cases, but the rich man who practised upon his poverty for the purpose of influencing his vote. They had already agreed that a Commission should be appointed to inquire into the alleged corruption at Wakefield; but he regretted that he had not opposed the Mo-
 1394
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Marylebone, in bringing forward that Motion, was merely seeking to carry out the provisions of an Act of Parliament. There was a statute—the 15th and 16th  Vict., 1395
 SIR HENRY DAVIE  said, that as he was then the only member of the Gloucester Committee in the House he felt it his duty to state that a grosser case of bribery could hardly be conceived than that which had been brought before them. He should himself have moved the appointment of a Commission in the case if he had not been anticipated in his intention by the hon. and learned Member for Marylebone.
 COLONEL SYKES  observed, that no less a sum than £768,000 had been spent upon Commissions. Last year no less than £33,000 was expended in that way, and he thought it was high time the House put a check upon such extravagance,
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, that looking at the precedent furnished by the Wakefield case, he should feel it his duty to Vote for the Motion, but he hoped that would be the last Commission of the kind that would be issued. These Commissions were perfectly useless. If they wanted to effect any good they ought to call upon hon. Members to come to the table to make a clear and distinct statement upon their honour that they had neither been guilty of bribery, directly or indirectly, and that they had not paid and would not pay any expenses beyond those properly certified by the Election Auditor.
 MR. VANCE  said, that as a general rule Commissions of this kind were not attended by any useful result; in point of fact, that they were utterly futile. But then that was entirely the fault of the House of Commons itself. It had been suggested that Committees should order the prosecution of both the bribers and the bribed; but if the suggestion were acceded to it would be altogether impossible to
 1396
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  denied that he had any interest in the patronage of the appointment of the Commissioners who were to conduct the inquiry, and he indignantly repudiated the idea that the members of the Bar had sunk so low as to seek the appointment of such a Commission merely for the sake of the patronage. The Commission for which he asked was in strict accordance with the Act of Parliament, and if it should come to nothing, that was not the fault of the Commissioners, but of the House, which might decline to act upon it afterwards.
 MR. BRADY  protested, that he had meant nothing personal towards the hon. and learned Member.
 MR. G. CLIVE  said, there would be no objection to the return, and stated that the Home Secretary had taken all the necessary steps to ascertain the facts from the local authorities. He must say that, according to the statement, the sentences seemed almost an enormity. But he hoped there might be some circumstances not within the knowledge of the House which justified the conduct of the magistrates.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the practice of orders being sent from the War Department to Officers commanding Militia Regiments to release deserters from their corps who have enlisted into the Line; and to ask the Secretary of State for War if such a practice is not contrary to the Articles of War?
 COLONEL DUNNE : But how does the right hon. Gentleman get over the perjury of these men?
 MR. BUXTON , in seconding the Motion, said, he would not detain the House except to say that that question was of much more practical importance than might at first sight appear. He knew that the Portuguese themselves were anxious that there should be some such expression of opinion on the part of the British Parliament as that now proposed, which would have the effect of placing them in a better position with respect to their efforts to suppress the slave trade than they were in at present.
 MR. CAVE  quite agreed in the Motion as far as Portugal was concerned. With regard, however, to France, he asked were they quite certain that the Emperor of the French had resolved to cheek the slave trade in all its forms throughout his dominions? He had himself received information from Martinique that a vessel with several hundreds of negroes on board, and belonging to a firm at Marseilles, had lately landed at that island; thus showing that a traffic was being carried on which our Government had stigmatized as the slave trade, and in consequence of which they addressed remonstrances to the Emperor. It was also stated that the vessel in question, after landing her cargo, was to return to the coast of Africa for a fresh one. It might be asserted that these negroes were free emigrants; but when it was known that they were sometimes placed in irons and put on board vessels which carried them to French possessions, it certainly did not seem as if they were allowed to exercise much free agency in the matter. Some of them had escaped from Martinique and Guadaloupe to British territory, while others had been drowned in their attempts at flight—circumstances which threw considerable doubt on their alleged freedom. Negotiations were said to have been set on foot by the Emperor of the French with our Government with a view to substitute Indian Coolies for these negroes. To the immigration of these Coolies to our own colonies there was no objection, because their embarcation and debarcation were both conducted under the strict surveillance of our Government agents. But if they were to be carried from the British possessions to Martinique, Guadaloupe, or Bourbon, immediately they had sailed, they would be withdrawn from the control of our authorities, and when they had arrived at their destination there would be no security for their proper treatment. If that was to be the compensation which we were to pay for the Emperor's apparent abandonment of the slave trade. he maintained that the price was too high.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  regretted that such a Motion should have been brought forward so late in the Session in so thin a House, and when his noble Friend at the Government and his noble Friend the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, were both unavoidably absent. He hoped that the hon. Gentleman who had introduced the subject would not think it necessary to
 1400
 MR. BRISCOE  concurred in what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, and trusted that the Motion would not now be persevered in.
 MR. CAMPBELL  said, that if the right hon. Baronet had had the goodness to read the terms of the Motion, he would have seen that it referred, as far as regarded Portugal, to transactions which were already concluded, and therefore could not inconvenience but must rather aid the Government in any correspondence now pending between them and that State. But under all the circumstances, and seeing that the Resolutions did not appear to command that support from the Government which was necessary to give them due authority, he thought he should best consult the feeling of the House by withdrawing them. At the same time, while following the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet, he must throw upon him the whole responsibility for the evil consequences which must flow from the postponement of the Motion.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, in the absence of the hon. and gallant Member for Antrim (General Upton), he would beg to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, if, considering the facts detailed in the Petition from the Ayr and Maybole Railway Company alleging the breach of an Agreement to which the Lords of the Treasury were a party, it is intended to lay out any public money on the Harbours of Portpatrick and Dona-ghadee, until the Mail Contract Committee shall have reported on the facts?
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : I don't get over it at all. The question is how the law gets over it.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, there could be no doubt that, whether politic or impolitic, the practice was strictly legal; because it was laid down in the Mutiny Act that a deserter from the Militia who enlisted in the Line was to be received, but that his time in the army was not to count till the time for which he had enlisted in the Militia was expired.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that acting in accordance with what he had stated some time ago, he had thought that the men themselves would be far better judges which knapsack it would be most convenient for them to carry than any Board of General or Medical Officers could be. He had, therefore, ordered a number of Berrington's knapsacks, as well as some of the knapsacks invented by Colonel Spiller, to be served out to the companies of certain Regiments, with a view to their being tested by practical experiment.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he could assure the hon. Gentleman he was mistaken in supposing that the late First Lord of the Admiralty had made any specific recommendation whatever on that subject. On a previous occasion he had told the hon. Member, when he asked a similar question, that there was a Letter of Sir John Pakington to Lord Derby respecting the treatment of Roman Catholic Sailors in the Fleet, but it merely contained vague expressions of opinion on each of the points laid before the right hon. Baronet. He could, therefore, only advise the hon. Gentleman to ask the permission of the late First Lord of the Admiralty to lay that Letter on the table, and then he would see that it really contained no specific recommendation whatever.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  replied that the question of the position of Masters in the Navy was under the consideration of the Board of Admiralty. There were considerable difficulties attending this question, because it involved the corresponding rank and position of other officers, who were similar in grade of rank with the masters. The late Board of Admiralty effected an improvement in the position of surgeons, and he thought it was to be regretted that they had not, at the same time, taken into consideration the position of masters and paymasters in the navy.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the Letter in question did not refer to the Roman Catholics on board of Her Majesty's ship  Ajax
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Home Department whether it is the intention of the Government to issue a Commission to inquire into the effect of prolonged labour of children in Mines of Coal and Ironstone, as the Act for the Inspection of Mines expires next year?
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works
 1384
 MR. G. CLIVE  said, he believed that an inquiry would take place on the subject, but that it had not yet been determined whether it should be conducted by a Commission. The matter, however, was under consideration, and he had no doubt that his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary would make a statement on the subject early next Session.
 MR. BRADY  rose and was proceeding to call the attention of the House to the circumstances under which Mr. S. H. S. Pullen, medical Officer of the third district Otterton and Briton of St. Thomas's Union, Exeter, had been dismissed by the Board of Guardians of the district; when. 1401
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, there would be no objection to lay on the table the reports to which the hon. Gentleman referred, but the best course he considered would be to put the question into the form of a Notice, and move it the following day, as an opposed return.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty whether the Government is prepared to carry into effect the recommendations of the late First Lord of the Admiralty, as specifically set forth in Sir John's Pakington's Letter to Lord Derby, dated April last, respect-
 1386
 CAPTAIN LEICESTER VERNON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War whether it is his intention to issue a Medical Commission to decide which among several competing kinds of knapsack was the best for the soldier?
 Mr. P. O'BRIEN  said, he wished to know if the Letter referred to the case of the  Ajax,
 MR. TORRENS  said, he would beg to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland whether there is any objection to lay on the Table Copies of the Official Reports made by the Civil and the Military Authorities who held investigations regarding the recent rioting at Kinsale between some of the soldiers of the regiment of Antrim Militia Artillery and some of the inhabitants of that town.
 MR. LAING  said, he could only repeat the answer he had given on this subject when the Estimates were under discussion, namely, that a bargain having been entered into by the Government and confirmed by the late Secretary to the Treasury, they could not now postpone acting upon it. The case did not at all come within the scope of the reference to the Mail Contract Committee. The sum to be laid out on those works would not exceed £20,000.
 MR. WALPOLE  brought up the Report of the Committee appointed to inquire into the allegations contained in the petition of Mr. H. E. Childers with reference to the recent election for the borough of Pontefract; and moved that it be printed. [ Cries of
 MR. WALPOLE  hoped the House would allow the Report to be printed. The Committee had been engaged all the day in considering their Report. Many alterations had been made in the document, which the Clerk would find it very inconvenient to read. He believed that its reading would occupy from half an hour to three quarters of an hour, and that the better course would be to order the petition to be printed, and it would then be in the hands of Members to-morrow.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS , having been a member of the Committee, begged to remind the House that the 17th paragraph of the Report stated that "a great misconception had prevailed throughout, as well with regard to the intention of the parties as with regard to the meaning and effect of the memorandum itself;" and that that paragraph had been carried unanimously in Committee. With reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member for York, he might add, that the idea of the hon. and
 1413
 SIR BROOKE BRYDGES  seconded the Motion.
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for India whether any or what instructions have been sent to the local Governments in India to inquire into and settle the claims of Meer Ali Moorad for the restoration of a portion of his territory?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  had a decided objection to this proceeding. The Committee had reported in terms of great ambiguity that bribery had been committed at the late election for Hull, though they had not fixed it in the ordinary terms upon the sitting Member or his agents. He should like to know, however, what were the grounds upon which Mr. Hoare had been unseated, if it were not that bribery had been practised on his behalf. The fact was, that they had unseated the Member for bribery, and had left the borough to go scot-free; and he thought the excuse which was offered the previous night by the other hon. Member for Hull (Mr. Clay) was a most remarkable one; that the borough had been worse on former occasions, and was getting better now. He (Mr. Darby Griffith) was tired of administering small doses of purity; and the time had arrived when, in his judgment, the state of the borough of Hull ought to be inquired into.
 MR. CLAY , without at all questioning the legality of the Committee's decision, would state upon his honour as a gentleman that he believed there was hardly any place of the same size in the country where elections were conducted with greater purity than in Hull.
 MR. MELLOR  said, that if the Report had stated the facts properly, it would have stated that the 300 persons bribed had been bribed by the agents of Mr. Hoare without his knowledge or consent; and why it had
 1421
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the unavoidable inference from the Report of the Committee was, that the sitting Member (Mr. Hoare) had by his agents been guilty of bribery, and as the Committee had declared the election void, he came to the conclusion that that decision was arrived at on the ground of bribery. He had, therefore, objected yesterday, to the issue of a new writ being ordered as a matter of course. The Members of the Committee who were then present expressed their opinions that there was nothing in the evidence which ought to prevent the issue of the writ; and he therefore suggested, as it was impossible to give the two days' notice required by the Sessional Order, that its suspension should be moved to-day, when the House could determine upon consideration, whether or not a writ ought to issue. As the Chairman of the Committee had moved that the evidence be laid before the House, he had thought there would be some difficulty with respect to the issue of the writ; but it had been stated that that course was not taken with any view to ulterior proceedings. He did not see, therefore, that there was any reason for suspending the writ.
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, there could be no doubt the late Member for Hull had been unseated on the ground of bribery; but the question was, to what extent the constituency, consisting of some 5,000 electors, was to be punished. Hull was a borough of great commercial importance, and the suspension of the writ was in fact a temporary disfranchisement of the constituency. The Committee had not reported that corruption prevailed to any extent, and he thought, therefore, there was no ground for suspending the issue of the writ.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  rose to express his opinion that they were in a precious mess. Every constituency protested, of course, that it was most virtuous; but unfortunately throughout the country they had been very much bribed and bought. In his opinion the House was proceeding in a peddling manner, and some great measure of reform was requisite to free the country from this disgrace. People out of
 1422
 MR. H. BERKELEY  thanked the noble Lord for bringing that question forward,
 1425
 THE LORD CHANCELLOR  said:
 LORD ELCHO  expressed the satisfaction with which he had heard the reply of his right hon. Friend. He had in his hand a letter from General Hay, in which the writer gave the opinion that very little ordinary drill was requisite for volunteers.
 LORD ELCHO , in moving for copies of any Reports relative to the instruction of Volunteers in the Government Musketry-School at Hythe, said he believed those reports would show that the volunteers who had placed themselves under instruction had applied themselves with a diligence and ability beyond all praise, and that they had distinguished themselves more than the officers of the regular army who had received instruction in the same school. He was desirous also to obtain, before the House separated for the recess, a clear statement from the Secretary for War of what were the views and intentions of the Government with respect to volunteers. He regretted that the noble Lord at the head of the Government had spoken of these corps with ridicule, and had talked about "the rifle corps fever" as an epidemic. He would ask if it really were the earnest wish of the Government to have volunteer rifle corps formed, otherwise those who had joined them were wasting their time. Did the Government look to the formation of rifle corps as an important and permanent element of national defence? If they did, and made a patriotic appeal to the country in their favour, he was certain it would be most heartily responded to. On the other hand, if they did not, and had acted not in earnest, but only to gratify the wishes of persons, and allow them like children to play at soldiers, let them say so to the volunteers, and the corps would be at once abandoned.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he was somewhat at a loss to understand on what ground his noble Friend entertained doubts as to the intentions of the Government on the subject. The noble Lord had said that his noble Friend at the
 1423 "I have the honour to forward, for the information of his Royal Highness the General Commanding-in-Chief, the enclosed return of the results of the performance in shooting of the noblemen and gentlemen of the rifle volunteer corps, who have just completed a course of instruction at this establishment, and to report, in reference to the method pursued, that the morning was devoted to carrying out a detail of daily work, as per annexed statement, so modified as to meet the requirements of a volunteer company, the members of which it is presumed will not be able to devote more than two hours and a-half daily to the musketry drill and practice. The desire, however, on the part of these volunteers to become fully acquainted with every detail connected with the system and the method of working it was so great that the whole day was spent in acquiring this information. Proficiency in the several prac-
 1424
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, the Government were obtaining arms not only from their own factory at Enfield, but from Liege, Birmingham, and every place capable of furnishing them.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he had stated to the House some time since the whole of the official information he possessed with respect to the intentions of the Governments of France and Austria as to the Duchies, and he had not received any official information since that time which altered the character of the statement he then made. There had been no advance, and the question remained, as far as he knew, in the same position as when he had made a communication on the subject to
 1420
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that compensation had been demanded from the Portuguese Government, and that although speedy progress had not been made with the subject, it should not be lost sight of. With regard to the affair at Jeddah an arrangement had been made for compensation, but none had as yet been paid.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  was under-stood to say that Mr. Bruce had gone to Pekin with the view of having the Treaty ratified; that it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to require the Emperor of China to carry out the Treaty; and that, although the Emperor may not immediately accredit an Envoy to this country, it is intended to invite the Chinese Government to send an Ambassador to the British Court.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  hoped the House would not adopt the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Selwyn). It was the intention of the statute to withdraw from the House the discussion of subjects of this nature, from a well-founded distrust of the House in these matters. He thought the hon. and learned Member for Pontefract had made a very fair proposal, and if it were entertained, and this Motion was negatived, as he thought it ought to be, the right hon. Member for Droitwich (Sir J. Pakington) and his right hon. Friend (Sir G. Grey) might very easily agree upon the appointment of a person to inquire into the question, and he understood the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Overend) to say that he would abide by their decision. It appeared to him (Lord J. Russell) that this was the only mode in which they could arrive at a satisfactory result.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs what steps have been taken to obtain compensation from the Government of Portugal for the seizure of the  Herald; 1419
 MR. SELWYN  said, he had only been anxious to elicit the opinion of the House upon the subject, and he had no objection whatever to withdraw his Motion.
 MR. SELWYN  said, that as a Member of the Committee, he might be pardoned for troubling the House with a few observations on this subject. He had himself proposed the 18th paragraph of the Report, and he thought the hon. Member for York had not correctly apprehended or stated the impression of the Committee with respect to that paragraph. The intention of the Committee in adopting that clause was, he believed, simply to act upon that rule which prevailed among honourable men, and which was acted upon every day in the courts of equity—namely, that when it was clear that a piece of paper which was supposed to contain the evidence of an agreement between two parties did not really represent the minds of both it should be considered a nullity, and the parties should be replaced as nearly as possible in their original position. He was sure that as soon as the hon. and learned Member for Pontefract was satisfied that there was a mistake on one side or the other—and it was the opinion of the Committee that there was a mistake on both sides—it was his desire that the parties should be replaced in their original position. With the view of effecting that object, he (Mr. Selwyn) proposed the 18th paragraph of the Report, which was adopted by the Committee. The difficulty with the Committee was, as to the manner in which this object could be accomplished. They searched for precedents, and one was found in which there had been an intention to withdraw a petition against the return for the borough of Cork, but by mistake a petition against the return for the city of Limerick was withdrawn instead. In that case the two things required by the Act in order to suspend all proceedings had been done— the petition had been  de facto 1410 de facto, 1411
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : —Sir, no instruction has been sent out or determined upon for the restoration of territory to Meer Ali Moorad, but instructions had been sent out to the Indian Government to consider in what way the loyalty and services of Meer Ali Moorad might be acknowledged.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, if the interest of the public service permits, whether the latest information he has received gives him reason to continue to think that there still exists no intention, on the part either of France or of Austria, to attempt to restore the late Dynasties of Parma, Modena, and Tuscany, by the employment of military force? And, whether he is in possession of any authentic information as to the statement in an official journal at Vienna, that the Red Republic had been proclaimed at Parma, the Piedmontese driven from the city, and that property-holders and friends of order were taking flight?
 MR. CRAUFURD  seconded the Motion.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, that the mistake in this case was not similar to that which was made in the case of the Cork petition, and the House had no power to remit the petition. He was one of the members of the Committee, but was not of opinion that there was any misconception in the matter on both sides, and there was a strong opinion on the part of some of his colleagues that the misconception was only on one side. It was not by any means the unanimous opinion of the Committee, and the 12th paragraph of the Report distinctly stated, "There cannot be a doubt that Mr. Leeman acted under the strongest conviction that in the references he would be entitled to claim the seat for his client."
 MR. EDWIN JAMES  said, there could be no doubt that the right hon. Member for Cambridge University had laid down the law of that case with perfect accuracy. There was no other way of restoring Mr. Childers to the position which he ought to occupy, except by the hon. and learned Member for Pontefract accepting the Chiltern Hundreds and going to a new election. ["Oh, oh!'] That was not a party question, and he adhered to his statement.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Member for York (Mr. Westhead) had stated that he intended to conclude with a Motion on a question of privilege. That hon. Gentleman was in the possession of the House, and if the question to which he was calling attention was one of privilege he was entitled to proceed.
 Mr. SPEAKER  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman must confine himself to the question of Order.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Member for York had risen to address the House on a question of privilege, relating to the compromise of the Pontefract election petition. The House had entertained that question as one of privilege, and the matter had been referred to the consideration of a Committee. The hon. Member for York was now calling the attention of the House to the circumstances that the Report of the Committee left it to the House to deter-
 1408
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that in the absence of his learned friend the Member for Dundalk (Mr. Bowyer), he begged leave to introduce a Bill relating to Catholic Charitable Trusts. He was bound to say that he was not aware of the existence of a single case requring specific legislation; and the necessity of introducing a Bill of this sort was rather forced upon the Catholics than sought for by them. When the subject was under discussion a few days ago the hon. Member for North Warwickshire said that "Cardinal Wiseman was a  legate a latere, 1427
 MR. WESTHEAD  resumed. It was not his intention to trespass upon the time of the House, but he thought—in the absence of the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright), who had in the first instance brought the question under their notice, and had moved for the appointment of the Committee — that he could not move any Resolution on the subject without drawing special attention to the circumstances of the case. When he was unduly interrupted by the hon. and learned Member for Wallingford, he was going on to say that it was quite clear, from the Report of the Committee, that from the outset neither Mr. Childers nor his agent had been actuated by any corrupt motive, but that their intention from first to last was to claim the seat. He was fully convinced that that was the single object they had in view. Since then the Committee had recommended in terms so clear and decided that Mr. Childers should, if possible, be restored to the same position in which he stood before the agreement of the 19th of July, he thought, it evident that there was only one way in which the House could hope to escape from the difficulty in which they were placed; for the Committee were not able to suggest any complete and satisfactory remedy, and it appeared to him that at the present moment the House of Commons was not in a position to enter into the case. If time had permitted, the House, in conformity with the recommendation of the Committee—four Members of which out of the seven he would remind hon. Gentlemen were chosen from the other (Opposition) side—might have attempted to remedy the evil in the best way they could by passing an Act which would have placed the hon. Member for Pontefract and Mr. Childers as nearly as possible in the position in which they stood before the election petition was withdrawn. The period of the Session, however, precluded the adoption of such a course, and he therefore appealed to the only person who could relieve
 1409
 MR. WESTHEAD  proceeded. When interrupted, he was saying that he had only obtained a copy of the Report of the Committee shortly before the meeting of the House, and had not been enabled to do more than glance over it very hastily. It appeared to him that by far the larger portion of that Report might be regarded as little more than a narrative of the allegations of the petition of which it might be said to be an analysis; but he would draw the attention of the House, and especially of the hon. and learned Member for Pontefract (Mr. Overend) to the three concluding paragraphs of the Report, which seemed to contain the sum and substance—the very kernel, as it were—of the Committee's decision. The 17th paragraph ran thus:—
 "Such are the facts with reference to the withdrawal of the Pontefract election petition. Many of these facts are still under dispute; but one thing is clear, and that is, that a great misconception has prevailed throughout, as well with regard to the intention of the parties, as also with regard to the meaning and effect of the memorandum itself. The consequence is that the election peti-
 1406 "Under these circumstances, your Committee are of opinion that the petitioner should, if possible, be restored to the same position in which he stood before the agreement of the 19th of July, 1S59, was signed, and before the election petition was withdrawn; but your Committee must leave it to the House to determine whether it possesses the power of restoring the petitioner to that position." "Your Committee have refrained from giving any opinion on the personal matters which have been brought under their notice. As the character or conduct of several parties have been more or less impugned, they have allowed a fuller latitude of statement than they would otherwise have thought right; but having done that, in order that everything which can be urged on either side may fairly be brought under the consideration of the House, they conceive that they will beat discharge their duty by confining their observations to the only matter which has been specifically referred to them—namely, the allegations contained in the petition of Mr. Childers, relative to the withdrawal of the Pontefract election petition." "Under these circumstances your Committee are of opinion that the petitioner should, if possible, be restored to the same position in which he stood before the agreement of the 19th of July, 1859, was signed, and before the election petition was withdrawn." 1407
 MR. WESTHEAD  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to a question of Privilege, and he meant to conclude with a Motion. The petition relative to the Pontefract election, which was presented a few days ago, had attracted considerable attention, not only in that House, but throughout the country. The Report of the Committee appointed to inquire into the allegations of that petition had only just been circulated, and he had not succeeded in obtaining a copy of that Report until within a very short time of the meeting of the House.
 CAPTAIN LEICESTER VERNON  ex-pressed his opinion that there was no country in the world so well adapted for the action of rifle corps as England, owing to it being so much enclosed and divided into different farms. Those who joined our volunteer corps, however, could not turn these advantages to account unless they had arms, and it appeared that the Government were to supply no more than 25 per cent of the weapons required. He was therefore anxious to know from the Secretary of State for War what market was likely to supply the requisite quantity of arms?
 CAPTAIN LEICESTER VERNON  said, there was a belief abroad that the Liege and Birmingham markets would not afford a sufficient supply, and it was most desirable that, when the riflemen had been raised they should have arms put into their hands.
 MR. MALINS  again rose to order, and appealed to the Speaker whether from the tone of the hon. Gentleman's speech this could be regarded as a question of privilege. The hon. Member was appealing to another hon. Gentleman, who had as good a legal right as himself to sit in that House, to ascertain whether he intended to resign his seat. It might be very convenient to the hon. Member and those who shared his views to put such a question, but he (Mr. Malins) could not see in what respect it had anything to do with the privileges of that House. The hon. Gentleman, referring to the substance of the Report, had said that there were no means by which the parties could be put into a position similar to that in which they stood before the 19th of July. He (Mr. Malins) had not had time to read the Report. ["Order."]
 MR. MALINS  would submit, then, whether the hon. Member for York was entitled to make an appeal to another hon. Member with the view of ascertaining whether he intended to resign his seat under pretence of raising a question of privilege.
 MR. MALINS : That was true, but the reading of it would occupy all the short remainder of the Session. The right hon. Member for Morpeth and the hon. Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Selwyn) took different views of the question; and yet the House was asked to decide without having an opportunity of reading either the Report or the Act of Parliament. He therefore begged to move the adjournment of the debate.
 MR.MALINS  quite agreed that the Committee had come to no conclusion on which the House could act. But the matter required grave consideration, and the House ought not now to be asked by the hon. Member for York to agree to his Motion.
 MR. MALINS  rose to order. He had himself a Notice on the paper for a Motion for the issue of a new writ, which was, he imagined, a matter of privilege, and was entitled to precedence.
 MR. GREGSON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs when he expects the Treaty with China will be ratified? whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to require the Chinese fully to carry out the conditions of the Treaty? and whether the Emperor of China will be invited to accredit a permanent Ambassador to this Court?
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he was desirous to say a few words on this subject, because it was very important that the House should clearly understand what it was called upon to do, especially after the suggestion made by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Pontefract for reinstating the parties in their previous position. If this proposition were acted upon it would give rise to this difficulty—how the parties could be reinstated in the position they were before; and this still more important question— was the House to take the matter into its own hands, and to decide, for the first time, that an Act passed expressly for the trial of controverted elections should be set aside at its own pleasure? That was not a technical but a most substantial question.
 1416 bonâ fide 1417
 MR. OVEREND  said, he could assure the House that nothing could be further from his wishes than that any misunderstanding with him should have prevented Mr. Childers from having all the right to which he was entitled; and if after this discussion it appeared that anything had been done to prejudice that gentleman, and he could be remitted to the position in which he was before the memorandum was signed, he (Mr. Overend) should be glad to assist in restoring him to that position by any means in his power. If Mr. Childers thought that the memorandum should be considered a nullity, and it were possible to restore him as a petitioner against the election he would heartily assist him in such a proceeding. In fact, he (Mr. Over-end) was anxious not to avoid an inquiry, inasmuch as that inquiry involved charges of personal misconduct against himself; he was desirous, therefore, that Mr. Childers should be put exactly in the same position as if no memorandum had been made. If there were an insuperable difficulty to that object being attained, all he could say was that he should deeply regret it; and he felt that in justice to Mr. Childers and himself, that gentleman ought not to be prejudiced by any misconception which had taken place on either side; and he was sure that Mr. Childers would not accuse him of wilful misconception, as he was sure he did not accuse Mr. Childers. He believed that they had both acted  bonâ fide; 1415
 MR. OVEREND  wished in every way to accede to Mr. Childers' views; and that that Gentleman should not have reason to complain that he had been prejudiced by any act on his (Mr. Overend's) part. Mr. Childers might put his own interpretation upon the contract, and go into a scrutiny if he pleased.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that the hon. and learned Member for Pontefract had pursued a most fair and honourable course. He understood that the Gentleman who might be appointed referee was to have full power to go into the whole case, and to determine what should be done.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : You are only asked to hear the Report read.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  differed with the Mover of the Amendment as to the power of the House to take the course which had been suggested. The precedents referred to were not applicable to the present case. The statute gave a distinct power to petitioners to withdraw their petitions, and it also prescribed the course which, when a petition had been so withdrawn, the House should adopt by directing that the order of reference to the General Committee of Elections should be discharged. When that had been done the petition was completely put an end to. The cases which the hon. and learned Member had cited were cases in which a mistake had been made by the House itself by the accidental substitution of the name of one place for another in the order discharging the reference; and undoubtedly where an error of that kind had crept in, the House might rescind the discharge of the order, with a view to reinstate the petitioners in their former position. Here, however, the circumstances were totally different, the parties having been perfectly well aware of what they were about, and the agent of the petitioner having exercised the right of withdrawing the petition with a full knowledge of the effect of that proceeding, and for the House to take the course proposed by the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Selwyn) would be to resume the authority which they had parted with under the Act. He believed that the right hon. Gentleman the Chairman of the Committee agreed with him in that view of
 1412
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  would suggest to his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Selwyn), that as the opinion of the House, and especially that of one of its highest authorities, was so decidedly against the Motion, he should consent to withdraw it He
 1418
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : There was one point upon which, at all events, the House would be unanimous, and that was that they could not enter upon a protracted discussion at that moment. He could not help thinking that the hon. Member for York had not kept his engagement to the House. He did not understand how the hon. Gentleman's speech bore upon the question of privilege, and the Motion with which he concluded had only tended to consume time which the House could but ill spare. Not having been present when the subject was discussed the other day, he had read the proceedings upon this subject as they were reported in the public journals; and he came at once to the conclusion that the fair and right course between the parties was to replace them where they were before the withdrawal of the petition—if that could be done. But the question was, if it were possible to do so. He was aware of the high authority of the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir G. Grey), and he was sorry to hear the decided opinion he had expressed that this course would be inconsistent with the Act of Parliament, But he would submit to
 1414
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I am sure that nothing could have been further from my mind than to have made use of any expression which could be construed into any disparagement of the Volunteer Rifle and Artillery Corps. No such intention existed in my mind, and I am profoundly sensible of the great importance of a serious movement of the sort such as had been referred to. In some cases, probably, the movement is not a very serious one, and there are some instances where there are persons who would think it very convenient to meet together to have a little rifle shooting, with power to withdraw from the corps at anytime with fourteen days' notice. So far from being indisposed to, or undervaluing the movement, I can only say that when I was in office before, I took steps—I am afraid not very successful ones—to induce the formation of artillery corps in different seaport towns, I gave the sanction of the Government to the formation of the Victoria Rifles in London, and of a rifle corps in the south of Devon. I think if the country is really impressed, as it ought to be, with a feeling of the great importance of having some organization of this sort as a permanent system of national defence—not in substitution of other forces, but in addition to them—and if those who enter into these corps will enter with a full intention to remain, and be available when any occasion may unfortunately occur, I am sure that the Government will feel it their duty to give them every possible encouragement. I can only repeat the opinion I have formerly expressed of the great advantage of
 1426
